Advertisement By CHAD BRAYOCT. 12, 2017  LONDON — Mark Tucker is the first outsider to serve as HSBC’s chairman, but he has chosen someone from within as the bank’s next chief executive. HSBC said on Thursday that John Flint, who is in charge of the lender’s retail banking and wealth management business, would assume the role of chief executive in February, when Stuart Gulliver retires. The naming of Mr. Flint is the latest in a series of moves to reshape the leadership of the bank, which is based in London but generates much of its profit in Asia. HSBC also has shaken up its board recently, adding four independent directors. Mr. Tucker said in a news release that Mr. Flint had “broad and deep banking experience across regions, businesses and functions.” Advertisement “He has a great understanding and regard for HSBC’s heritage, and the passion to build the bank for the next generation,” Mr. Tucker added. “Through the search process, John has developed with myself and the board a clear sense of the opportunities and priorities that lie ahead.” Advertisement Mr. Flint, 49, joined HSBC in 1989 and spent his first 14 years at the company in Asia, working with its global markets business. He has previously served as the bank’s treasurer, chief executive of its global asset management business, and as chief of staff for Mr. Gulliver. As chief executive, Mr. Flint will receive an annual salary of 1.2 million pounds, or about $1.6 million. He also will receive a fixed pay allowance of £1.7 million a year and an annual pension allowance of £360,000, as well as discretionary variable pay and a long-term incentive award based on the bank’s performance. “I am humbled by the responsibility and enormously excited by the opportunity to lead HSBC as group C.E.O.,” Mr. Flint said. “The bank is very well positioned for the future, but we must continue to innovate and accelerate the pace of change required to meet the expectations of our shareholders, customers, employees and society at large.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mr. Tucker, the former chief executive of the Asian life insurer AIA Group, was named chairman in March, succeeding Douglas Flint, who had been with HSBC since 1995 and who had been chairman since 2010. One of Mr. Tucker’s first tasks was to lead the search for the successor to Mr. Gulliver, who became chief executive in 2011. Under the leadership of Douglas Flint and Mr. Gulliver, HSBC has undergone major changes, making efforts to navigate a difficult business environment and the greater scrutiny and capital demands from regulators after the financial crisis. In recent years, the bank has significantly reshaped its operations by shedding tens of thousands of jobs, selling underperforming businesses and shrinking its global investment banking business. Last year, HSBC, which was founded in 1865 in Hong Kong as the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, decided to keep its headquarters in London after a lengthy review. In announcing its decision in February 2016, HSBC said that Asia remained “at the heart of the group’s strategy.” HSBC has also undergone the expensive process of strengthening its financial-crime compliance after reaching a $1.9 billion settlement with the United States government in 2012. Advertisement “After the most extensive restructuring of the bank in its history and a relentless focus on meeting the evolving expectations of society, I am confident HSBC is in better shape than it was seven years ago,” Mr. Gulliver said in the statement on Thursday. “I know that with Mark and John leading the organization, it is in great hands.” Follow Chad Bray on Twitter: @Chadbray. A version of this article appears in print on October 13, 2017, on Page B6 of the New York edition with the headline: HSBC Veteran Is Named New Chief.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 