Advertisement By THE NEW YORK TIMESFEB. 19, 2017  Here’s a look at what’s coming up this week. ECONOMY Finance ministers representing the 19 eurozone nations meet on Monday in Brussels to debate the latest stage in Greece’s bailout.  They appear unlikely to reach a deal after a bailout review, but analysts and officials are hopeful of a “political agreement” that could be followed later by technical details. In short, the country’s debt crisis has a ways to go yet. Prashant Rao BANKING Britain’s largest lenders — Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds Banking Group and the Royal Bank of Scotland — are all expected to update investors on their fourth-quarter and full-year 2016 results this week. Results have been mixed for European banks this earnings season as several lenders have reported quarterly losses after taking large charges to resolve legal issues. Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank reported losses in the fourth quarter after each reaching a multibillion-dollar settlement with the United States Department of Justice for its packaging and sale of toxic mortgages ahead of the financial crisis. The Justice Department sued Barclays in December after the two sides failed to reach a settlement over the bank’s sales of residential mortgage-backed securities despite months of talks. And the Royal Bank of Scotland said last month that it would set aside an additional $3.8 billion in the fourth quarter for investigations and litigation in the United States related to mortgages. Chad Bray ECONOMY The American economy is showing signs of stronger growth. People are spending more money, employers are adding jobs, the stock market keeps rising and so do measures of business and consumer confidence. Is that enough to persuade the Federal Reserve to start raising interest rates more quickly? The Fed left its benchmark rate unchanged at its first meeting of the year, which ended on the first day of February. On Wednesday, it will release an account of that meeting, which may shed some light on the Fed’s mood ahead of its second meeting of the year, in mid-March. Officials in recent weeks have said they are ready to move more quickly if necessary, but investors are still betting the Fed will not raise rates again before June. Binyamin Appelbaum Advertisement AUTO INDUSTRY When Tesla, the electric car company, reports fourth-quarter earnings on Wednesday, investors will focus less on the previous quarter’s performance and more on any updates the company’s chief executive, Elon Musk, gives about the forthcoming Model 3. Production is expected to start this year, and the small car is key to Tesla’s stated goal of producing 500,000 vehicles in 2018. Some analysts anticipate a delay. In 2016, Tesla delivered 76,230 cars, shy of its target of 80,000. Neal E. Boudette  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ECONOMY On Friday, the Commerce Department will release data on new home sales in January. Economists are looking for purchases last month to equal 575,000 on an annual basis, up from the 536,000 rate in December. Despite a pickup in mortgage rates, demand for new homes has been healthy, in part because inventory of existing homes is tight. Furthermore, the surging stock market and steady hiring have increased optimism among potential buyers. Nelson D. Schwartz The University of Michigan on Friday will release its final estimate of consumer sentiment for February. The initial reading of 95.7 was down slightly from January’s level, but still very healthy. Given Wall Street’s rally in recent weeks, and encouraging economic data on other fronts, the index could be revised up a bit. Nelson D. Schwartz Advertisement FINANCIAL On Saturday, Warren E. Buffett is expected to publish his latest annual letter on behalf of his $417 billion conglomerate, Berkshire Hathaway. Ostensibly meant as a recap of Berkshire’s yearly performance, the letter has traditionally been a wide-ranging insight into the billionaire’s thoughts on the state of the country, from politics — he was a public backer of Hillary Clinton over Donald J. Trump last year — to climate change to income inequality. Michael J. de la Merced A version of this article appears in print on February 20, 2017, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: The Week Ahead; E.U. Revisits Greek Crisis; Fed Offers Meeting Details.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 