Advertisement By DAN LEVINAPRIL 10, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.  A deadline for retaliation in Syria, a holy rebuke from the Vatican and new legal woes for President Trump. Here’s the latest: • “This is about humanity, and it can’t be allowed to happen.” President Trump said Monday that he would decide in the next 24 to 48 hours whether to retaliate militarily for the apparent chemical weapons attack that killed dozens of people in Syria over the weekend — and seemed to imply that he could take action against Syria’s patrons, Russia and Iran. Russia’s stock markets and the ruble slumped sharply. Fighters from Iran were among the 14 killed in an airstrike on a Syrian military base that Russia and Syria attributed to Israel. In the U.S., military officers and national security advisers, including John Bolton, above, second from right, on his first day in the administration, met to discuss options. Advertisement On our podcast “The Daily,” Ben Hubbard offers a Middle East correspondent’s perspective on the Syrian war. Advertisement _____ • Which side would you choose? European leaders were mostly silent after President Trump threatened to impose tariffs on an additional $100 billion in Chinese goods. But our European financial reporter notes that the region’s economy is too intertwined with those of both the U.S. and China to allow the Continent to watch the trade dispute from the sidelines — or to avoid the crossfire if a full trade war breaks out. (Above, a Volkwagen factory in Wolfsburg, Germany, last month.) Meanwhile, China’s president, Xi Jinping, spoke publicly for the first time since the beginning of the escalating trade dispute with the U.S., taking aim at Mr. Trump by claiming that China rejects “power politics.” _____ • “Nazis out!” That was a chant of nearly 300 protesters, above, in Berlin during a march by far-right extremists last month. The protesters also banged pots and pans. Behind the protest is a German bookshop owner who was so appalled by the sight of recent far-right rallies in his neighborhood that he decided to act. The country’s bookstores have long played an active role in German civil society, and they are once again at the forefront of the fight against fascism. _____ • Free but not entirely fair. Independent monitors said Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary and his political party used state resources to bolster his campaign, a day after he won a landslide electoral victory that now poses a stiff test for the European Union. Advertisement One example of those blurred lines: Mr. Orban’s right-wing government swamped the country with anti-immigrant posters that often appeared next to party-financed placards featuring opposition candidates digitally altered to embrace his frequent target, the Hungarian-born billionaire George Soros. While European far-right leaders congratulated Mr. Orban, above, human rights groups condemned his victory, which grants the government even greater power to erode Hungary’s rule of law. _____ • “Equally sacred.” Pope Francis declared that caring for refugees and the poor was just as holy as opposing abortion, pushing back against his conservative critics within the Roman Catholic Church who say he should focus solely on social issues long at the heart of church doctrine, like condemning birth control and homosexuality. The pope’s more progressive stance was issued in a major document that highlighted the ideological battle underway in the Vatican, where archconservatives have denounced him for championing social justice and advocating migrants’ rights. He hit back by lamenting the hypocrisy of self-righteousness and intolerance, calling instead for Christians to embrace compassion toward outsiders. “Sowing peace all around us,” he wrote. “That is holiness.” What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Mark Zuckerberg, above, Facebook’s chief executive, begins testifying before Congress today. His company is at the center of a firestorm for its use as a conduit for fake news, election meddling, hate speech and privacy abuses (here’s what he’ll be grilled on). • Facebook has already started to notify up to 87 million people whose information, including location and liked pages, was swept up by the political data firm Cambridge Analytica. We reached out to some of them for reaction, which ranged from angry to unsurprised. • HSBC will start using artificial intelligence software to help it spot financial crimes. Investment funds are also racing to use A.I. to improve their stock-picking and save money. • New U.S. projections put the federal government’s annual budget deficit at over $1 trillion in 2020, and the national debt at more than $33 trillion in 2028 — or 96 percent of gross domestic product, a higher level than any point since just after World War II. Advertisement • Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In the U.S., the F.B.I. raided the office of President Trump’s longtime personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, above, seizing records related to several topics, including payments to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels. [The New York Times] • The U.S. special counsel is investigating a Ukrainian tycoon’s payment to President Trump’s foundation made during the 2016 election campaign, part of a broader inquiry into the president’s foreign money sources. [The New York Times] • Suing the Syrian government: U.S. lawyers for the family of Marie Colvin, an American war reporter killed in 2012, presented a trove of evidence that they say shows Syrian forces deliberately targeted foreign journalists for death. [The New York Times] • “Firearms Valley”: A small village in Italy produces 40 percent of the world’s handguns, rifles and other small arms. [Politico] • Italy’s anti-establishment Five Star Movement is well situated to lead the country’s next government. But the party’s term limits may crush the dreams of its ambitious young leader. [The New York Times] • Germany’s Interior Ministry said that it supports a proposal to expel migrants who commit anti-Semitic acts. The move comes as the country struggles with rising anti-Semitism. [Deutsche Welle] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Make the most of your time spent on doing laundry. • Resorts, cruise lines and other organizations are offering special programs to help hurricane-damaged islands. Advertisement • Recipe of the day: Fried lemons and chile flakes perk up a simple bowl of pasta. • Palace intrigue:  Curious about Britain’s upcoming royal wedding? Well, you’re in luck. Our reporters answer the biggest questions about the nuptials, including: Did your invitation get lost in the mail? What name will be on Meghan Markle’s British driver’s license? (And most important, Why should you care?) • The use of antidepressants is surging in much of the developed world, accompanied by an unanticipated and growing problem: Many who try to quit say they cannot because of withdrawal symptoms they were never warned about. • In memoriam: Ivor Guest, 97, a Briton whose research into ballet from 1750 to 1900 transformed the study of dance history. “The poor are my people.” Those were the words of William Booth, founder of the Salvation Army, who was born on this day in 1829 in Nottingham, England. At 13, he went to work for a pawnbroker in a poor part of the city, which first opened his eyes to the needs around him. He had a conversion experience soon after and became a Methodist minister. But Booth preferred street evangelism and less conventional methods, and he formed the group that eventually became known as the Salvation Army. The group had military ranks (he was the general), uniforms, brass bands and female preachers, including Booth’s wife, Catherine. On a visit to the United States, he said he wanted “to reach and benefit particularly saloon keepers and inmates of houses of ill fame.” Booth’s ways were controversial, however, and some of his children left the group. His memorial service was an emotional gathering attended by tens of thousands in London in 1912. Dozens responded to an invitation for “sinners and backsliders” to come forward, and Booth might have been pleased with their description: “Most of the converts were of the type usually found at the Army meetings, but among them were several well-dressed persons.” Advertisement Sarah Anderson contributed reporting. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 