Advertisement By CHAD BRAYFEB. 14, 2016  LONDON — HSBC said on Sunday that it would keep its headquarters in Britain after announcing plans last year to review whether to move its home. The bank, which is based in London but generates more than half of its earnings in Asia, announced a formal review in April, citing increasing regulatory requirements and a tax that had hit banks based in Britain particularly hard. The political environment, however, has shifted. The Conservative Party won full power in the May election after five years in a coalition, and the British government has softened its tone on the banking industry as it hopes to keep London an attractive home for the financial industry. HSBC, Britain’s largest bank by assets, said that the board’s decision was unanimous and that Asia remained “at the heart of the group’s strategy.” Advertisement “As we evaluated jurisdictions against the specified criteria, it became clear that the combination of our strategic focus on Asia and maintaining our hub in one of the world’s leading international financial centers, London, was not only compatible, but offered the best outcome for our customers and shareholders,” Douglas Flint, the HSBC chairman, said in a news release. Advertisement Stuart T. Gulliver, HSBC’s chief executive, said, “Having our headquarters in the U.K. and our significant business in Asia Pacific delivers the best of both worlds to our stakeholders.” HSBC, which was founded as the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation in 1865 in Hong Kong, moved its headquarters to Britain in 1993. The lender had reviewed whether to shift its headquarters in the past, but chose to stay in Britain. On Sunday, the bank said it would revisit the matter only if there were a material change in circumstances. Some shareholders and analysts suggested last year that HSBC would be better off with its headquarters elsewhere, particularly as the costs of the changing regulatory environment in Britain continued to mount.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. By 2019, banks in Britain will be required to shield their retail operations here from the effects of investment banking and other activities in the event of another financial crisis — a process known as ring fencing. That is one of several added costs that lenders are facing as part of structural reforms after the financial crisis. HSBC and other lenders based in Britain have also faced a stiff tax known as a bank levy. The levy was put in place in 2010 to help finance efforts to rescue the financial system, but it has also generated revenue for other programs. Under the levy, banks based in Britain have been taxed on their global balance sheets, while overseas competitors are taxed only on their British operations. HSBC’s payment had more than doubled since 2012. The tax cost the bank about $1.1 billion in 2014, when HSBC reported a profit of $13.7 billion. It amounted to $472 million in 2012. Advertisement Before HSBC announced job cuts last year as part of a reshaping of the bank, it employed about 46,000 people in Britain. Sunday’s announcement had been telegraphed in British newspapers as the government tempered its statements when it came to the banking industry. In June, George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, promised a “new settlement” in the government’s approach to the financial industry, reflecting somewhat of a change in tone after years of escalating fines and tough regulatory overhauls. Mr. Osborne also promised to reduce the bank levy beginning this year, and to change the way it is calculated in future years. A version of this article appears in print on February 15, 2016, on Page B2 of the New York edition with the headline: HSBC to Keep Headquarters in Britain.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 