by Judy Berman Feb. 20, 2018 Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. After years of anticipation and months of hype, the Disney-Marvel superhero epic “Black Panther” finally debuted in theaters on Friday. The movie garnered almost universal acclaim from reviewers and earned an estimated $387 million in its opening weekend. It’s already the highest-grossing film of all time by a black director (Ryan Coogler, who also directed “Creed” and “Fruitvale Station”). And, of course, it has audiences and critics talking. After years of anticipation and months of hype, the Disney-Marvel superhero epic “Black Panther” finally debuted in theaters on Friday. The movie garnered almost universal acclaim from reviewers and earned an estimated $387 million in its opening weekend. It’s already the highest-grossing film of all time by a black director (Ryan Coogler, who also directed “Creed” and “Fruitvale Station”). And, of course, it has audiences and critics talking. In her New York Times review, Manohla Dargis said the film “becomes an emblem of a past that was denied and a future that feels very present.” Whether you’re interested in the movie’s racial and gender politics, curious about the future of the Marvel Universe or you simply want to sample the best spoiler-filled essays, our list of essential post-“Panther” reading is here to help. In her New York Times review, Manohla Dargis said the film “becomes an emblem of a past that was denied and a future that feels very present.” Whether you’re interested in the movie’s racial and gender politics, curious about the future of the Marvel Universe or you simply want to sample the best spoiler-filled essays, our list of essential post-“Panther” reading is here to help. ‘Did You Watch “Black Panther”? Let’s Talk Spoilers’ [The New York Times] ‘Did You Watch “Black Panther”? Let’s Talk Spoilers’ [The New York Times] In the mood to celebrate Shuri (Letitia Wright)? Have some thoughts on the movie’s white characters? If so, you’ll want to read Reggie Ugwu’s recap and dive into the comments. In the mood to celebrate Shuri (Letitia Wright)? Have some thoughts on the movie’s white characters? If so, you’ll want to read Reggie Ugwu’s recap and dive into the comments. ‘“Black Panther”’s 2 End-Credits Scenes, Explained’ [Vox] ‘“Black Panther”’s 2 End-Credits Scenes, Explained’ [Vox] Alex Abad-Santos dissects two clips that may include clues for upcoming Marvel movies. “T’Challa promising to reveal Wakanda’s unrivaled capabilities and power seems to put Wakanda in an extremely important position going into ‘Avengers: Infinity War,’” he notes. “The idea is that, when Thanos shows up to wreak havoc on Earth, the fate of the planet will ultimately depend on the efforts of its mightiest country: Wakanda.” Alex Abad-Santos dissects two clips that may include clues for upcoming Marvel movies. “T’Challa promising to reveal Wakanda’s unrivaled capabilities and power seems to put Wakanda in an extremely important position going into ‘Avengers: Infinity War,’” he notes. “The idea is that, when Thanos shows up to wreak havoc on Earth, the fate of the planet will ultimately depend on the efforts of its mightiest country: Wakanda.” ‘In Defense of Erik Killmonger and the Forgotten Children of Wakanda’ [Shadow and Act] ‘In Defense of Erik Killmonger and the Forgotten Children of Wakanda’ [Shadow and Act] Brooke Obie defends the ostensible villain of “Black Panther,” arguing: “The fact that T’Challa can choose love when Killmonger is consumed with vengeance isn’t so much a testament to T’Challa’s character as it is an indictment of Wakanda. When its king abandoned Killmonger, he never had a chance. Whatever is good in him exists by miracle.” Brooke Obie defends the ostensible villain of “Black Panther,” arguing: “The fact that T’Challa can choose love when Killmonger is consumed with vengeance isn’t so much a testament to T’Challa’s character as it is an indictment of Wakanda. When its king abandoned Killmonger, he never had a chance. Whatever is good in him exists by miracle.” ‘“Black Panther” and the Revenge of the Black Nerds’ [The New York Times] ‘“Black Panther” and the Revenge of the Black Nerds’ [The New York Times] In an Op-Ed, Lawrence Ware recalls feeling isolated as a black teen who read comic books in the ’90s. “Now I know that to be a black nerd is by no means anomalous; millions of people who look like me grew up loving comic books,” he writes. “Yet despite our numbers, we were underground for a long time. Today, though, there appears to be a widening cultural appreciation for what black people have always known: There are many ways to be black in America.” In an Op-Ed, Lawrence Ware recalls feeling isolated as a black teen who read comic books in the ’90s. “Now I know that to be a black nerd is by no means anomalous; millions of people who look like me grew up loving comic books,” he writes. “Yet despite our numbers, we were underground for a long time. Today, though, there appears to be a widening cultural appreciation for what black people have always known: There are many ways to be black in America.” ‘Why ‘Black Panther’ Is a Defining Moment for Black America’ [The New York Times Magazine] ‘Why ‘Black Panther’ Is a Defining Moment for Black America’ [The New York Times Magazine] Ryan Coogler’s film is a vivid re-imagination of something black Americans have cherished for centuries, writes Carvell Wallace: Africa as a dream of wholeness, greatness and self-realization. “We have for centuries sought to either find or create a promised land where we would be untroubled by the criminal horrors of our American existence,” he writes, and Coogler is contributing to those deeply held aspirations. Ryan Coogler’s film is a vivid re-imagination of something black Americans have cherished for centuries, writes Carvell Wallace: Africa as a dream of wholeness, greatness and self-realization. “We have for centuries sought to either find or create a promised land where we would be untroubled by the criminal horrors of our American existence,” he writes, and Coogler is contributing to those deeply held aspirations. ‘“Black Panther” Forces Africans and Black Americans to Reconcile the Past’ [Buzzfeed] ‘“Black Panther” Forces Africans and Black Americans to Reconcile the Past’ [Buzzfeed] “Black Panther,” writes Kovie Biakolo, tackles the intricacies of identity in the African diaspora. “What if the African diaspora could point to a country with a history unpenetrated by oppressive contact with Europeans?” she asks, and makes the case that in the film, viewers can now find this in the nation of Wakanda. “Black Panther,” writes Kovie Biakolo, tackles the intricacies of identity in the African diaspora. “What if the African diaspora could point to a country with a history unpenetrated by oppressive contact with Europeans?” she asks, and makes the case that in the film, viewers can now find this in the nation of Wakanda. ‘The Revolutionary Power of “Black Panther”’ [Time] ‘The Revolutionary Power of “Black Panther”’ [Time] Jamil Smith revisits the Black Power movement, explores the origins of Black Panther and discusses issues of representation and identity with Coogler and his cast in this wide-ranging cover story. He points out that “Black Panther” is “both a black film and the newest entrant in the most bankable movie franchise in history,” and he rightly predicts that, “For a wary and risk-averse film business, led largely by white film executives who have been historically predisposed to greenlight projects featuring characters who look like them, ‘Black Panther’ will offer proof that a depiction of a reality of something other than whiteness can make a ton of money.” Jamil Smith revisits the Black Power movement, explores the origins of Black Panther and discusses issues of representation and identity with Coogler and his cast in this wide-ranging cover story. He points out that “Black Panther” is “both a black film and the newest entrant in the most bankable movie franchise in history,” and he rightly predicts that, “For a wary and risk-averse film business, led largely by white film executives who have been historically predisposed to greenlight projects featuring characters who look like them, ‘Black Panther’ will offer proof that a depiction of a reality of something other than whiteness can make a ton of money.” ‘“Black Panther” and the Invention of “Africa”’ [The New Yorker] ‘“Black Panther” and the Invention of “Africa”’ [The New Yorker] “Africa — or, rather, ‘Africa’ — is a creation of a white world and the literary, academic, cinematic and political mechanisms that it used to give mythology the credibility of truth,” Jelani Cobb observes in an essay on how the film addresses the West’s long history of exploiting Africans. “No such nation as Wakanda exists on the map of the continent, but that is entirely beside the point. Wakanda is no more or less imaginary than the Africa conjured by Hume or Trevor-Roper, or the one canonized in such Hollywood offerings as ‘Tarzan.’ It is a redemptive counter-mythology.” “Africa — or, rather, ‘Africa’ — is a creation of a white world and the literary, academic, cinematic and political mechanisms that it used to give mythology the credibility of truth,” Jelani Cobb observes in an essay on how the film addresses the West’s long history of exploiting Africans. “No such nation as Wakanda exists on the map of the continent, but that is entirely beside the point. Wakanda is no more or less imaginary than the Africa conjured by Hume or Trevor-Roper, or the one canonized in such Hollywood offerings as ‘Tarzan.’ It is a redemptive counter-mythology.” ‘Finally, “Black Panther” Is a Movie Black Women Can Celebrate’ [Independent] ‘Finally, “Black Panther” Is a Movie Black Women Can Celebrate’ [Independent] The film is earning heaps of praise for its female characters. The journalist and activist Adebola Lamuye writes: “For those of us who have struggled to find multifaceted representations of ourselves, this is it. The dark-skinned female superhero finally looks like me, my sister, my mother, my friends. Female suffering is not used as a narrative device — instead women are the best spies Wakanda has to offer, fearless warriors and scientific genius responsible for the nation’s technological advancements.” The film is earning heaps of praise for its female characters. The journalist and activist Adebola Lamuye writes: “For those of us who have struggled to find multifaceted representations of ourselves, this is it. The dark-skinned female superhero finally looks like me, my sister, my mother, my friends. Female suffering is not used as a narrative device — instead women are the best spies Wakanda has to offer, fearless warriors and scientific genius responsible for the nation’s technological advancements.” ‘Kevin Feige on the Future of Marvel’s Women’ [Vulture] ‘Kevin Feige on the Future of Marvel’s Women’ [Vulture] Will “Black Panther” fan favorites like Lupita Nyong’o’s Nakia and Letitia Wright’s Shuri ever get their own movies? “It is all about figuring out when and how,” said Kevin Feige, the president of Marvel Studios, in an interview with Vulture’s Kyle Buchanan. “But by the way, many of them have already filmed additional scenes in upcoming movies, so some of that is gonna come sooner rather than later. All of them will be seen again.” Will “Black Panther” fan favorites like Lupita Nyong’o’s Nakia and Letitia Wright’s Shuri ever get their own movies? “It is all about figuring out when and how,” said Kevin Feige, the president of Marvel Studios, in an interview with Vulture’s Kyle Buchanan. “But by the way, many of them have already filmed additional scenes in upcoming movies, so some of that is gonna come sooner rather than later. All of them will be seen again.” ‘Behind the Scenes of “Black Panther”’s Afrofuturism’ [Wired] ‘Behind the Scenes of “Black Panther”’s Afrofuturism’ [Wired] Angela Watercutter explores various elements of the movie’s aesthetic, from its architecture to its weaponry, through conversations with Coogler and his crew. “A big question I was interested in exploring was, What makes something African?” the director told Watercutter. “For us, we said, ‘Let’s make it human, let’s make it tactile.’” Angela Watercutter explores various elements of the movie’s aesthetic, from its architecture to its weaponry, through conversations with Coogler and his crew. “A big question I was interested in exploring was, What makes something African?” the director told Watercutter. “For us, we said, ‘Let’s make it human, let’s make it tactile.’” ‘How “Black Panther”’s Costume Designer Created a New Vision of Africa’ [Refinery29] ‘How “Black Panther”’s Costume Designer Created a New Vision of Africa’ [Refinery29] Ruth E. Carter designed costumes for “Do the Right Thing,” “Malcolm X,” “Love & Basketball” and many other films before clothing the nation of Wakanda in “Black Panther.” In an interview with Channing Hargrove, she explained: “Our aesthetic was always to bring about positive visuals to the African diaspora in this country. And to dispel stereotypes. To be about a forward-thinking community that empowered the black community, women and even natural hair.” Ruth E. Carter designed costumes for “Do the Right Thing,” “Malcolm X,” “Love & Basketball” and many other films before clothing the nation of Wakanda in “Black Panther.” In an interview with Channing Hargrove, she explained: “Our aesthetic was always to bring about positive visuals to the African diaspora in this country. And to dispel stereotypes. To be about a forward-thinking community that empowered the black community, women and even natural hair.” ‘“Black Panther” Is Great. But Let’s Not Treat It as an Act of Resistance.’ [The Guardian] ‘“Black Panther” Is Great. But Let’s Not Treat It as an Act of Resistance.’ [The Guardian] Although she’s as excited about the film as anyone else, the writer Khanya Khondlo Mtshali cautions viewers, “If we behave as though purchasing a ticket to see a film produced by Disney is a form of resistance, we fail to distinguish between black art that touches on revolutionary themes, and the actual work required for revolution itself.” Although she’s as excited about the film as anyone else, the writer Khanya Khondlo Mtshali cautions viewers, “If we behave as though purchasing a ticket to see a film produced by Disney is a form of resistance, we fail to distinguish between black art that touches on revolutionary themes, and the actual work required for revolution itself.” ‘“Black Panther” Is Not the Movie We Deserve’ [Boston Review] ‘“Black Panther” Is Not the Movie We Deserve’ [Boston Review] Christopher Lebron was troubled by Coogler’s representation of black American men. “In 2018, a world home to both the Movement for Black Lives and a president who identifies white supremacists as fine people, we are given a movie about black empowerment where the only redeemed blacks are African nobles,” he writes. “They safeguard virtue and goodness against the threat not of white Americans or Europeans, but a black American man, the most dangerous person in the world.” Christopher Lebron was troubled by Coogler’s representation of black American men. “In 2018, a world home to both the Movement for Black Lives and a president who identifies white supremacists as fine people, we are given a movie about black empowerment where the only redeemed blacks are African nobles,” he writes. “They safeguard virtue and goodness against the threat not of white Americans or Europeans, but a black American man, the most dangerous person in the world.” ‘“Black Panther” Screenwriter Joe Robert Cole Addresses Rumors of a Deleted Gay Scene’ [ScreenCrush] ‘“Black Panther” Screenwriter Joe Robert Cole Addresses Rumors of a Deleted Gay Scene’ [ScreenCrush] Last spring, Vanity Fair’s Joanna Robinson got her hands on early footage of a flirtatious moment between two female characters, Danai Gurira’s Okoye and Florence Kasumba’s Ayo. The scene never made it into the movie. So, what happened? In a conversation with ScreenCrush’s E. Oliver Whitney, the screenwriter Joe Robert Cole, one of the writers for “Black Panther,” says he vaguely recalls some discussion of whether to include the lesbian love story. “There wasn’t some major theme through that we were looking to explore with [those characters] in terms of the story,” Cole clarifies. “We didn’t like, pull out a full thread of some theme.” Last spring, Vanity Fair’s Joanna Robinson got her hands on early footage of a flirtatious moment between two female characters, Danai Gurira’s Okoye and Florence Kasumba’s Ayo. The scene never made it into the movie. So, what happened? In a conversation with ScreenCrush’s E. Oliver Whitney, the screenwriter Joe Robert Cole, one of the writers for “Black Panther,” says he vaguely recalls some discussion of whether to include the lesbian love story. “There wasn’t some major theme through that we were looking to explore with [those characters] in terms of the story,” Cole clarifies. “We didn’t like, pull out a full thread of some theme.” ‘Don’t Play With Our Emotions: “Black Panther” and Queer Representation’ [The Root] ‘Don’t Play With Our Emotions: “Black Panther” and Queer Representation’ [The Root] Briana Lawrence, who identifies as a queer black woman, was surprised that the scene’s exclusion didn’t bother her. “I should’ve been cursing Ryan Coogler out, swift and fast like my mama taught me when someone pisses me off,” she writes. “But after thinking it over, I’m happy the scene didn’t make it into the movie, and that feels blasphemous to admit as someone who is always championing representation — especially for queer folks of color like me.” Briana Lawrence, who identifies as a queer black woman, was surprised that the scene’s exclusion didn’t bother her. “I should’ve been cursing Ryan Coogler out, swift and fast like my mama taught me when someone pisses me off,” she writes. “But after thinking it over, I’m happy the scene didn’t make it into the movie, and that feels blasphemous to admit as someone who is always championing representation — especially for queer folks of color like me.” Heartwarming Bonus Read: ‘I Took 7th Graders to See “Black Panther.” Here’s What They Said.’ [The New York Times] Heartwarming Bonus Read: ‘I Took 7th Graders to See “Black Panther.” Here’s What They Said.’ [The New York Times] Prof. Kevin Noble Maillard watched the film with a handful of tweens from a Brooklyn public school. A lively post-screening conversation prompted insights like this observation from Jaheim Hedge: “For people of color, it shows us that we can get through any obstacles that are thrown at us if we work together. We can also help the world by sharing our resources.” Prof. Kevin Noble Maillard watched the film with a handful of tweens from a Brooklyn public school. A lively post-screening conversation prompted insights like this observation from Jaheim Hedge: “For people of color, it shows us that we can get through any obstacles that are thrown at us if we work together. We can also help the world by sharing our resources.” Interested in more great movies by black American directors? Try these titles. Interested in more great movies by black American directors? Try these titles. Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing. 