Advertisement By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 24, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Melania Trump’s state dinner, #MeToo defiance in China and clues in the Toronto rampage. Here’s what you need to know: • “It’s insane. It’s ridiculous.” President Trump again denounced the nuclear agreement with Iran — this time in front of President Emmanuel Macron of France, who is in Washington on a mission to save it. At the same news conference, Mr. Trump admitted that his nominee to lead the Veterans Affairs Department is in serious trouble. He’s been accused of overseeing a hostile work environment as the White House doctor, allowing the overprescribing of drugs and possibly drinking on the job. Melania Trump has done most of the planning for the state dinner honoring Mr. Macron and his wife, Brigitte, advising her small, anxious staff: “Don’t worry.” Advertisement _____ • A test for China’s #MeToo movement. After an activist said Peking University had warned her to stop speaking about a 20-year-old rape case, and even hounded her mother, a group of students posted banners that asked, “What exactly do you fear?” Above, protest posters. Advertisement The banners were quickly removed, and the activist’s online testimony and name — Yue Xin — were censored. Now some students are publicizing their boycott of the university’s 120th anniversary celebration in May with the hashtag #NotMyAnniversary. _____ • In India, the rape and killing of an 8-year-old Muslim girl has led to protests across the country. But in the Hindu village where she was killed, people have lined up behind the accused men. Our correspondent writes, “India remains so deeply divided along religious, ethnic and political lines that even a crime this awful instantly gets politicized, sucked into the vortex of a never-ending communal war.” Above, Hindus demanding the investigation shift to a federal agency widely seen as a tool of the country’s governing party, which is deeply rooted in Hindu nationalism. Scholars say it’s hard not to see the girl’s killing as part of an ominous pattern. According to a recent analysis, hate crimes have risen sharply against Muslims and lower-caste Hindus. _____ • New details in Toronto carnage. Alek Minassian, the 25-year-old suspect in a devastating vehicular rampage, was charged with first-degree murder for each of the 10 people killed, as well as with 13 counts of attempted murder. Above, police officers examined the crime scene. The police have not offered a possible motive. But interviews with the suspect’s former acquaintances, witnesses and others, and details from his now-deleted Facebook account portray him as a troubled young man who harbored resentment toward women, had a penchant for computer programming and appeared determined to die. Advertisement _____ • “There is always this nagging feeling that they may stab us in the back again.” That was a South Korean businessman expressing the doubt in his country, as it prepares for their president to meet North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, on Friday. But after monthslong charm offensive by Mr. Kim, some South Koreans have found a chance for optimism. “He knows he can’t feed his people with nuclear weapons and tanks,” one said. Above, a hopeful banner in Seoul. And after six decades, the Korean War is technically still not over. Here’s a video of what happened — and why it still matters. • The end is near. With “Avengers: Infinity War,” which opens today in Australia and most of Asia (May 11 in China), the director brothers Joe and Anthony Russo are bringing the curtain down on the most lucrative franchise in Hollywood history. Watch the trailer. • Alphabet, Google’s parent company, is spending heavily on its cloud business, hardware products and A.I. assistant. That suggests it may be shifting away from the service that enriched it: using vast troves of personal data in service of internet advertising. • Mark  Zuckerberg is empowering Facebook users to control their own data. Our columnist points out that the likely outcome is that users will share more, not less. • Amazon is taking delivery to the next level in 37 U.S. cities, depositing packages in the trunks of customers’ cars. • U.S. stocks were off sharply. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Indonesia, Setya Novanto, a former speaker of Parliament long seen as untouchable, was sentenced to 15 years for masterminding the embezzlement of more than $170 million. [The New York Times] Advertisement • A new study suggests that President Trump’s electoral victory reflected white, Christian and male fears of a loss of cultural dominance, and a broader fear of China’s increasing power. [The New York Times] • “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies, and Leadership,” the book by the former F.B.I. director James Comey, is an instant blockbuster. [The New York Times] • The police in southern China arrested a man on suspicion of arson hours after a fire killed 18 people at a karaoke bar. [The New York Times] • In Japan, a 17-year-old carriage horse was given the status of “sacred” on its retirement from service at the Imperial Palace. [The Asahi Shimbun] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Using a standing desk may benefit your brain. • Here are some tools to help protect your data from advertisers. • Recipe of the day: Tonight, aim for big flavor with a meal of chicken thighs with mango, rum and cashews. • “We perform for the Gods.” A community has formed around Chinese opera in Thailand, preserving a cornerstone of culture dating to the 7th century — one of the oldest dramatic art forms in the world. • In memoriam.  Sachio Kinugasa, 71, a member of Japan’s baseball hall of fame. The “iron man” of the Hiroshima Carp, he topped Lou Gehrig’s record of most consecutive games played. Advertisement • And our news podcast, “The Daily,” examines the mysterious case of a missing Hong Kong bookseller. What happened? And what did the Chinese government have to do with it? Before Michael Jordan, one of the world’s most famous basketball players was another native of the North Carolina city of Wilmington: Meadowlark Lemon. Lemon, who was born on this day in 1932, never played in the National Basketball Association. That’s because when Lemon, above front row third from left, joined the Harlem Globetrotters in 1954, their mix of comedy and basketball legerdemain was the biggest draw in the game. (If YouTube works for you, check out some of his signature moves.) The team played thousands of exhibitions around the world for millions of fans — and even helped America fight Communist propaganda during the Cold War. Despite their name, the Globetrotters were founded in Chicago in 1926 and didn’t play a game in Harlem until 1968. Lemon led the team to the height of its fame in the 1970s. Their roster wasn’t just filled with court jesters, either. They could play. The Globetrotters have been credited with integrating the N.B.A. by beating the all-white Minneapolis Lakers in 1948 and 1949. The next year, the Globetrotters’ Nat “Sweetwater” Clifton became the first black player to sign a contract with the league. Lemon, who died in 2015, wrote in his memoir about the Globetrotters: “They had done more for the perception of black people and for the perception of America than almost anything you could think of.” Robb Todd wrote today’s Back Story. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.  And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.  Advertisement Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 