Advertisement By CHRIS STANFORDAPRIL 27, 2018   (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • The leaders of North and South Korea agreed today to work to remove all nuclear weapons from the peninsula. Kim Jong-un and President Moon Jae-in also said they would declare an official end to the 1950-53 Korean War by the end of this year. The agreement came after Mr. Kim crossed the world’s most heavily armed border zone, becoming the first North Korean leader to set foot in South Korean-controlled territory. (Watch video of the historic moment.) “I came here to put an end to the history of confrontation,” he said at the start of a summit meeting with Mr. Moon, which could set the tone for one with President Trump in the next few months. • While today’s events were rich with symbolism, Mr. Kim is not expected to agree to Mr. Trump’s key demand: total and immediate nuclear disarmament. North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, walked across the inter-Korean border to meet the South’s president, Moon Jae-in. No North Korean leader had made the journey in the two countries’ 70-year history of bitter rivalry. • The House Intelligence Committee has released its report on Russian election meddling, saying this morning that it had found no evidence that the Trump campaign was involved. Advertisement The committee also released dissenting views from the Democrats, and recommendations for protecting ballots. Read the full report here. Advertisement The investigation was one of several by the government into election interference. The Justice Department’s special counsel investigation is continuing, and the Senate Intelligence Committee has an inquiry underway. • Separately, the Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in June 2016 had closer ties to the Kremlin than she let on. • “If a sexual predator wanted to come up with a smoke screen for his ghastly conquests, he couldn’t do better than Cliff Huxtable.” Mr. Cosby’s signature TV character — and America’s favorite father figure from the 1980s — once seemed inseparable from the man who portrayed him, our critic at large Wesley Morris writes. That persona was the perfect cover for terrible behavior: Mr. Cosby, 80, was convicted on Thursday of drugging and sexually assaulting a woman 14 years ago. Dozens of women have accused the entertainer of assault over the years. • A spokesman said Mr. Cosby would appeal. His case was the first high-profile sexual assault trial to unfold since the beginning of the #MeToo movement, which some observers say may have affected the verdict. Andrea Constand is the only woman among more than 50 accusers whose complaint against Mr. Cosby has resulted in a conviction. A jury found him guilty of three counts of aggravated indecent assault. • President Trump had a mixed day on Thursday. The Senate easily confirmed Mike Pompeo, the C.I.A. director, as the nation’s 70th secretary of state, making a foreign policy hawk the top U.S. diplomat. Advertisement In the House, Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency, appeared before two committees to answer questions (or not) about accusations of excessive spending and conflicts of interest. And Dr. Ronny Jackson withdrew from consideration to lead the Veterans Affairs Department. As White House physician, he was accused of being in charge of a toxic work environment and freely dispensing prescription drugs. • Our White House correspondents look at how Dr. Jackson joined a long list of Trump advisers and associates who have found themselves in legal, professional or personal trouble. • Yesterday’s briefing mentioned that DNA evidence helped identify the suspect in a string of rapes and murders in California in the 1970s and ’80s. We have more details of  how technology found him. Using DNA from crime scenes, investigators plugged a genetic profile of the Golden State Killer into an online genealogy database. They found distant relatives of the suspect, Joseph James DeAngelo, and traced their DNA to him. The case could raise ethical issues, particularly if individuals didn’t consent to having their genetic profiles searched against crime scene evidence. • Mr. DeAngelo’s arrest came more than 30 years after the Golden State Killer’s crime spree ended. Experts say the popular belief that serial rapists and killers are incapable of stopping is more myth than reality. • What changed after Mr. Cosby’s first sexual assault trial, which ended in a hung jury? Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device. Advertisement • The U.S. economy was whacked around like a pinball in the first quarter, but it still grew at an annual rate of 2.3 percent, the government reported this morning, offering a preliminary glance at the effects of the tax overhauls. • Make Mexico great again: The leading presidential candidate has vowed to play his own nationalist card, worrying U.S. oil companies. • Facebook faced tough questions from British  lawmakers on Thursday, in stark contrast with recent hearings in Washington. • Disney films kicked the smoking habit in 2015. Antismoking activists want 20th Century Fox, which Disney is buying, to do the same for all its films for young audiences. • U.S. stocks were up slightly on Thursday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today. Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • These apps will help you plan a last-minute trip. • Protect your online browsing privacy. • Recipe of the day:  Try this salsa verde on just about anything (especially roast chicken). • The rocks that could help save the planet The rocks in Oman, in the Arabian Peninsula, have a special ability: They can turn carbon dioxide into stone. In theory, these rocks could store hundreds of years of human emissions. Storing even a small fraction of that wouldn’t be easy, but it’s not impossible. • Analyzing the N.F.L. draft The Cleveland Browns selected the quarterback Baker Mayfield, from Oklahoma, with the first pick. We analyze all 32 picks in Round 1. Advertisement The draft continues tonight. • Britain’s newest prince has a name It’s Louis Arthur Charles. • The week in good news “Have you met James? James saved a lot of lives.” Read about  James Shaw Jr., who disarmed the gunman in the Nashville Waffle House attack, and six other things that inspired us. Want to receive the good news roundup by email? Sign up here. • Quiz time! Did you keep up with this week’s news? Test yourself. Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Ready for the weekend At the movies, we reviewed “Disobedience,” starring Rachel Weisz and Rachel McAdams, and “Avengers: Infinity War,” starring a parade of Marvel superheroes. Find all of this week’s film reviews here. And “The Karate Kid” is back. The definitive underdog tale from the 1980s returns in “Cobra Kai,” a series on YouTube Red. We also picked 10 new books, and have lots of recommendations if you’re in New York: 14 pop, rock and jazz concerts, nine plays and musicals, and seven things to do with kids. And if art is your thing, check out our spring gallery guide, a neighborhood-by-neighborhood look at what’s worth looking at. Advertisement • Best of late-night TV President Trump told the hosts of “Fox and Friends” on Thursday that, while he hadn’t gotten a birthday present for his wife, Melania, he did give her “a beautiful card.” “How did Trump mess up the world’s easiest question?” Trevor Noah asked. (We also fact-checked the president’s interview.) • Quotation of the day “Every neighborhood has some strange little dude. But for him to be a serial murderer and rapist — that never crossed my mind.” — Paul Sanchietti, a neighbor of Joseph James DeAngelo, who was arrested this week in the decades-old Golden State Killer case. • The Times, in other words Here’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. • What we’re reading Nick Corasaniti, a reporter for The Times, recommends this piece: “Cambridge Analytica and Facebook have occupied the lion’s share of the discussion around online privacy and data. But Bloomberg took a deep, extensive look at how another data-mining company — the Peter Thiel-founded Palantir — is using its battlefield tools to track American citizens.” Mary Wollstonecraft — an English philosopher, author and feminist — was born on this day in 1759 into a financially unstable London household with a violent alcoholic father. Wollstonecraft rejected the notion that women were incapable of reason, and she promoted women’s education. She also opposed marriage, which she considered a form of slavery. In the end she did marry — her husband was William Godwin, now seen as one of the first modern proponents of anarchism — when she was pregnant with her second child. (Wollstonecraft had a daughter from an affair with an American.) Advertisement She died at 38, less than two weeks after giving birth to a second daughter, Mary, who would grow up to write “Frankenstein.” Among the works for which Wollstonecraft is known are two public letters: “A Vindication of the Rights of Men” (published anonymously in 1790) and “A Vindication of the Rights of Woman,” published in 1792. Her goal for women: “I do not wish them to have power over men, but over themselves.” Claire Moses wrote today’s Back Story. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here. Check out our full range of free newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com. Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 