Advertisement By ZACH JOHNK and DAVID SCULLAPRIL 23, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.  1. “One by one, one by one. Holy God, I’ve never seen such a sight before.” A witness described seeing a van smash into person after person along Toronto’s main thoroughfare. The Canadian authorities said the van drove onto the sidewalk in two locations, killing at least 10 people and injuring 15 others before the police were able to stop it and take the driver into custody. Several witnesses said the crash debris included a child’s stroller. _____ 2. A manhunt that set Nashville on edge is over. The police arrested Travis Reinking, 29, above, the suspect in a shooting at a Waffle House early Sunday that killed four people and wounded four more. What we know so far: His family had expressed concerns about his delusional behavior (he believed Taylor Swift was stalking him). And his guns had been confiscated last year, after he was detained near the White House, but they were returned to his father. Advertisement The victims of the shooting were all in their 20s. More could have died if a customer, James Shaw Jr., had not wrested away the gunman’s AR-15 rifle. “I’m not a hero,” he said. “I’m just a regular person.” Advertisement _____ 3. France’s president, Emmanuel Macron, above, arrived in Washington on a mission to use his unusual bond with President Trump to save the nuclear agreement with Iran. This is what the next few days look like: Mr. Macron and his wife, Brigitte, will be honored at a pomp-filled ceremony on the South Lawn on Tuesday morning, with military units in formal uniforms. The presidents will hold meetings and give a joint news conference. Tuesday night brings the state dinner, the Trumps’ first. (On the menu: spring lamb and Carolina gold rice jambalaya.) On Wednesday, Mr. Macron will address Congress, hold a town-hall-style meeting at George Washington University and conduct a solo news conference. _____ 4. “Lots of room for a bargain, or lot of room for a war.” That’s how one political scientist characterized the major gaps between the goals held by the United States and North Korea as planning proceeds for President Trump’s meeting with Kim Jong-un. Both unpredictable, they “already appear to misunderstand one another on basic terms,” our Interpreter columnist writes. South Korea, hoping to ease tensions and “create a peaceful mood” for a meeting between its president and Mr. Kim on Friday, turned off loudspeakers blaring K-pop music and other propaganda into North Korea. Above, a news program in Seoul. _____ 5. Saudi Arabia and other Arab countries, with support from the U.S. and Britain, have been bombing Yemen for more than three years. Advertisement The latest target turned out to be a wedding in Yemen. More than 20 people died, including the groom. A video showed a boy clinging to his dead father, crying, “No, no, no.” Above, a boy who was injured. And in the U.S., one of the many service members severely injured after stepping on an improvised bomb in Iraq or Afghanistan received an extraordinary transplant: a penis, scrotum and portion of the abdominal wall. _____ 6. Gigantic windmills  are turning wind into a mainstream form of energy. Come with us inside the engineering marvels, more than 600 feet high, with rotor blades that can reach 270 feet in length, comparable to the wingspan of an Airbus A380. (Larger turbines harness more wind, creating more energy and — eventually — lowering costs.) Wind is now a major power source in parts of northern Europe, and large corporations are setting their sights on new markets in Asia and the U.S. _____ 7. Eight pounds, seven ounces, and fifth in line for the throne. Britain’s latest royal baby is the third child of Catherine, the duchess of Cambridge, and Prince William, above. We talked to excited people outside the hospital, where such gatherings have become a modern tradition. The fascination was reflected in headlines commenting on the baby’s weight, likely personality traits and more. _____ 8. An Oregon woman opened a doctor’s email hoping for clues as to why her 2-year-old daughter had seizures and could not speak, walk or stand. The message said the problem might be a mutation on a gene called FOXG1. Almost no one in the world would have had any idea what that was. Advertisement But in a coincidence a genetics expert called “astounding,” the woman, Soo-Kyung Lee, happened to be a specialist in brain genetics who had worked with the FOX family of genes for years. Deep research with her husband, another scientist, has helped her “understand how this gene works and why.” She thanks her daughter, who has many impairments but is doing better than expected. Above, mother and daughter. _____ 9. The “Avengers” movie series is nearing its conclusion, a decade and billions of dollars in box office proceeds later. The latest film, “Infinity War,” above, which opens Friday, is the first of a two-movie extravaganza that will bring down the curtain. Our reporter talked with the directors of the final films about the challenge they face. “Audiences are about to find out,” he writes, “what finality looks like for a motion-picture money-minting machine: Will the story actually come to a conclusion? _____ 10. Finally, Amy Schumer’s new movie, “I Feel Pretty,” has started a dialogue about female beauty standards. Ms. Schumer plays an insecure woman who injures her head and decides she’s a knockout. (Here’s our review.) The premise is “a pretty little lie,” writes our critic at large. “Expectations for female appearances have never been higher,” she continues. “It’s just become taboo to admit that.” Advertisement Have a great night. _____ Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 