Advertisement By REMY TUMINAPRIL 24, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. The Macrons visit the Trumps, Brexit’s impact grows, and cash handouts are ending in Finland.  Here’s the latest: • The Trumps hosted Emmanuel and Brigitte Macron, the president and first lady of France, at the White House. At the top of the agenda:  the Iran nuclear deal, which Mr. Macron vigorously supports. During a joint news conference, President Trump said he still thought the agreement was “terrible.” But he also said he could agree to “a new deal” negotiated by American and European officials if it was strong enough. Mr. Trump and Mr. Macron were particularly warm toward each other. We explore “le bromance” of the two presidents, which continued into the night at the Trumps’ first state dinner. Advertisement On the fashion front, our critic weighed in on the wide-brimmed white hat Melania Trump donned for the arrival ceremony. Advertisement _____ • Britain’s fishermen have complained for years about regulations, so it was inevitable that the small fishing town of Grimsby, England, overwhelmingly voted in favor of leaving the European Union. But when a local business group began lobbying to avoid tariffs involved with departing the E.U., scorn ensued. Grimsby’s seafaring nostalgia was a vivid demonstration of the way emotions can transform politics and affect the economy. Another group caught in the tailwinds of Britain’s move to the right was the “Windrush generation” — Caribbeans invited to Britain to help rebuild after World War II — which faced harsh treatment under a migration crackdown. _____ • A portrait is emerging of Alek Minassian, the 25-year-old suspect in Monday’s vehicular attack in downtown Toronto. Prosecutors charged him with 10 counts of first-degree murder and 13 counts of attempted murder, but did not disclose a motive. Above, a memorial. We spoke to people who knew him and saw his now-suspended Facebook page, which showed he was socially isolated and had expressed hostility toward women. He had briefly joined the armed forces, but quit after 16 days of basic training. _____ • Finland captured global attention with its test of universal basic income, handing out cash, no strings attached. Now, the experiment is ending. Advertisement The conclusion of the trial does not necessarily signal an end of interest in the initiative (other trials are underway around the world) but rather public discomfort over the idea of giving out government money without requiring recipients to seek work. Above, a co-working space in Finland. Finnish social services are already notoriously generous, which could be the main reason that basic income lost momentum: It is effectively redundant. The experiment will conclude at the end of the year. • Our Glass Ceiling Index, in which we counted the women and men in important leadership roles, found that the number of U.S. chief executives named John — a group that is overwhelmingly white — is very similar to the total number of female executives. • The authorities in a number of European countries say Facebook is unfairly using its leverage over consumers to coerce personal information from them. Our columnist’s take on Mark Zuckerberg’s assessment that privacy is up to the user: “He must be kidding.” • The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is cracking down on the sales of e-cigarettes to minors, especially the popular vaping brand Juul. • U.S. stocks sank for the fourth straight day, as investors looked past a series of outwardly positive earnings reports and fixated on threats to the nine-year-old bull market. Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • It took nearly 200 years, but Parliament Square in London has its first statue of a woman. Millicent Fawcett, an unsung hero who led campaigning for women’s right to vote, now stands among 11 statues of men in the historic center. [The New York Times] • Some 100,000 people have bet on the name of Prince William’s youngest son, born earlier this week. James, Albert and Philip are in the mix, but the “wisdom of crowds” says it’s Arthur. [The New York Times] Advertisement • The footballer Mohamad Salah spent two years in Rome before moving to England, training alongside Roma’s defenders every day. But even with a close study of the forward, Salah carried Liverpool to a 5-2 win over Roma in the first leg of a Champions League semifinal. [The New York Times] • Following a spate of anti-Semitic attacks, the leader of Germany’s Jewish community advised Jews not to wear yarmulkes — skullcaps — in large German cities. [BBC] • The United Arab Emirates is donating $50 million to rebuild the centuries-old Al Nuri Grand Mosque in Mosul, Iraq, which was destroyed last year in combat between Iraqi security forces and the Islamic State. [The New York Times] • A training program in Russia that tests the endurance of President Vladimir V. Putin’s potential new cabinet members has selected its final pool of candidates. But only after having them jump off a cliff and duck under armored cars. [Moscow Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Using a standing desk may benefit your brain. • Here are some tools to help protect your data from advertisers. • Recipe of the day: Tonight, aim for big flavor with a meal of chicken thighs with mango, rum and cashews. • When Noma opened in Copenhagen in 2003, it created a movement and a new cuisine. The restaurant closed last year as its chef reimagined what a new Noma could look like. Now reopened, our critic explains what it’s like to eat in the second incarnation of the rule-defying restaurant. • About two million people made their way to Rotterdam harbor between 1880 to 1920 to begin a trans-Atlantic journey that would often end at Ellis Island. A plan would transform an old Holland America Line warehouse in the Netherlands into a sister site dedicated to those who made the passage to America. Advertisement • “Avengers: Infinity War,” the 19th installment in the blockbuster series, opens across Europe this week. And our critic says: “I’m supposed to tell you, in this review, how much fun you’ll have at ‘Infinity War,’” he writes. “(Yes, you will have some. Will you have enough? Almost.)” Before Michael Jordan, one of the world’s most famous basketball players was another native of the North Carolina city of Wilmington: Meadowlark Lemon. Lemon, who was born on this day in 1932, never played in the National Basketball Association. That’s because when Lemon (third from left in the front row, above) joined the Harlem Globetrotters in 1954, their mix of comedy and basketball legerdemain was the biggest draw in the game. (Check out some of his signature moves.) The team played thousands of exhibitions around the world for millions of fans — and even helped America fight Communist propaganda during the Cold War. The Globetrotters were founded in Chicago in 1926 and didn’t play a game in Harlem until 1968. Lemon led the team to the height of its fame in the 1970s. Their roster wasn’t just filled with court jesters, either. They could play. The Globetrotters have been credited with integrating the N.B.A. by beating the all-white Minneapolis Lakers in 1948 and 1949. The next year, the Globetrotters’ Nat Clifton, called Sweetwater, became the first black player to sign a contract with the league. Lemon, who died in 2015, wrote in his memoir about the Globetrotters: “They had done more for the perception of black people and for the perception of America than almost anything you could think of.” Robb Todd wrote today’s Back Story. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Advertisement Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.) Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters. What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com. Follow Dan Levin on Twitter: @globaldan. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 