Advertisement By KAREN ZRAICK and DAVID SCULLAPRIL 24, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest. 1. The Trumps hosted Emmanuel and Brigitte Macron, the president and first lady of France, at the White House. At the top of the agenda: discussion of the Iran nuclear deal, which Mr. Macron vigorously supports. During a joint news conference, President Trump said he still thought the agreement was “terrible.” But he also said he could agree to “a new deal” negotiated by American and European officials if it was strong enough. Our fashion critic weighed in on the wide-brimmed white hat Melania Trump donned for the arrival ceremony. (It drew immediate comparisons to Beyoncé, Jude Law and Olivia Pope.) We’ll have a full team covering tonight’s state dinner, for which Mrs. Trump did most of the planning. Advertisement _____ 2. At the White House news conference with Mr. Macron, President Trump admitted that his nominee to lead the Veterans Affairs Department was in serious trouble. Advertisement Dr. Ronny Jackson, above, has been accused of overseeing a hostile work environment as the White House physician, allowing the overprescribing of drugs and possibly drinking on the job. Mr. Trump accused adversaries on Capitol Hill of going after Dr. Jackson because they failed to block Mike Pompeo, the president’s nominee to become the next secretary of state. _____ 3. American commanders fighting the Islamic State are being forced to shift their tactics. With their Kurdish allies now fighting Turkey in northern Syria, the U.S.-led campaign is stepping up airstrikes, using aircraft like the Super Hornet fighter jet above. The Islamic State holds less than 10 percent of the territory it captured in 2014, but it can still launch attacks outside its own territory. We talked to an analyst who expects the group to increase attacks in Iraq and Syria to mark Ramadan, which begins May 15. _____ 4. A portrait is emerging of Alek Minassian, the 25-year-old suspect in Monday’s vehicular attack in downtown Toronto. Prosecutors charged him with 10 counts of first-degree murder and 13 counts of attempted murder, but did not disclose a motive. Above, a memorial. We spoke to people who knew him and saw his now-suspended Facebook page, which showed he was socially isolated and had expressed hostility toward women. He had briefly joined the armed forces, but quit after 16 days of basic training. Advertisement _____ 5. The F.D.A. is cracking down on the sales of e-cigarettes to minors, especially the popular vaping brand Juul. The agency said it had issued warning letters to dozens of retailers and demanded that Juul Labs submit health and marketing information. “We don’t yet fully understand why these products are so popular among youth,” the F.D.A. commissioner, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, said in a statement. “But it’s imperative that we figure it out, and fast. These documents may help us get there.” _____ 6. Voters in Arizona’s Eighth Congressional District headed to the polls in a special election to replace Trent Franks, who resigned after he was revealed to have offered $5 million to an aide to be impregnated with his child. It’s a conservative suburban district outside Phoenix. Debbie Lesko, the Republican nominee and a former state senator, is favored to win over Hiral Tipirneni, a Democrat and emergency room doctor. Still, Republicans are nervous. We’re tallying the results here — the definitive moment should come around 11 p.m. Eastern. _____ 7. Amazon has begun delivering packages to parked cars. The service is available in 37 American cities and surrounding areas, to customers with recent-model cars that use technology allowing satellite location-tracking and digital access to the locks. A delivery person will unlock the car using a smartphone and leave the package in the trunk or on the back seat. That helps customers who don’t want to risk “porch pirates” or who can’t get deliveries at work. _____ 8. Two former N.F.L. cheerleaders who are suing the league for gender discrimination have proposed a settlement. For $1. Advertisement The plan was crafted by Sara Blackwell, a Florida lawyer who represents the former Saints cheerleader Bailey Davis, above, and the former Dolphins cheerleader Kristan Ware. They’re asking for a meeting with Commissioner Roger Goodell, and they want the league to create rules that apply to all N.F.L. teams. Their proposal would also prohibit teams from disbanding cheerleading squads as a way to retaliate against women who raise complaints. _____ 9. On Monday, we highlighted our interview with the directors of the latest Avengers movie, “Infinity War,” which opens Friday. And now, our review is in. Our critic A. O. Scott notes that as the 19th installment in a series, the movie was never meant to be viewed or judged in isolation. After all, it’s not just a movie; it’s a “synergistic expression of the corporate interests of Marvel Studios and the Walt Disney Company.” “I’m supposed to tell you, in this review, how much fun you’ll have at ‘Infinity War,’” he writes. “(Yes, you will have some. Will you have enough? Almost.)” _____ 10. Finally, James Corden welcomed Britain’s new prince with a few good-natured jokes on the “Late Late Show”. Advertisement “This is Kate’s third child in just five years,” he noted. “When she heard that, Meghan Markle was like, ‘Heh, we’re not all expected to do that, are we?’” Ms. Markle, of course, is set to wed Prince Harry on May 19. (Here’s our guide to everything you might ever want to know about the royal wedding.) Have a great night. _____ Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern. And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 