Advertisement By ANDREW R. CHOWDEC. 1, 2017  “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” returns. And stream Netflix’s first original German-language series.  MARVEL’S AGENTS OF S.H.I.E.L.D. 8 p.m. on ABC. The new trailer for Marvel’s “Avengers: Infinity War” arrived this week, with an absurdly deep roster of stars appearing as extremely powerful superheroes for extremely short amounts of time. (The entire “Guardians of the Galaxy” cast got about two seconds onscreen.) Operating on a much more patient and modest level is “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” which centers on a spy agency of regular humans fighting supernatural forces; the show has generated unsexy but reliable reviews and ratings over four seasons. Season 5’s two-hour premiere finds Agent Coulson (Clark Gregg) and his team stranded on a mysterious ship deep in outer space. DARK on Netflix. This streaming service has put an emphasis on creating content from across the globe, and Friday marks the release of its first original German-language series. The show takes place in a small town next to a nuclear power plant; a young boy disappears and a body is found in the woods. The show possesses a sensibility specific to its country: “I don’t know if it’s German angst, but there is something uniquely creepy about Germans, at least from the outside perspective,” the writer Jantje Friese, one of the show’s creators, told The Times in an interview. EAST LOS HIGH on Hulu. This drama was one of Hulu’s first forays into original programming in 2013; it follows a group of Latino high schoolers in East Los Angeles navigating everything teenagers do in television shows — friendships, sex, drugs, family. After ending Season 4 with a huge cliffhanger, the show will bow out as Hulu’s longest-running series with this stand-alone one-hour finale. The plot picks up eight months later, as the group prepares to leave high school, and possibly Los Angeles, behind. HITCH (2005) on Netflix. New to Netflix: Will Smith stars as Alex Hitchens, a “date doctor” whose suaveness and charm are irresistible — until he meets Sara Melas (Eva Mendes), an unflappable, witty gossip columnist who seems impervious to his advances. The movie has plenty of dopey physical comedy, particularly from Mr. Smith and Kevin James, but also reveals a deeply romantic core. VOYEUR on Netflix. For decades starting in 1966, the Colorado motel owner Gerald Foos spied on his residents through walls, mostly watching them have sex. He brought his story to the journalist Gay Talese, who waited 25 years to publish Mr. Foos’s queasy story in a book, “The Voyeur’s Motel.” But the book itself created a firestorm over its accuracy and moral integrity — how complicit was Mr. Talese himself in Mr. Foos’s reprehensible acts? This documentary, which debuted at this year’s New York Film Festival, features interviews with Mr. Foos and Mr. Talese as they wrestle with an onslaught of criticism and their own complex relationship. A version of this schedule appears in print on December 1, 2017, on Page C16 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Friday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 