Advertisement By ANDREW R. CHOWAPRIL 26, 2018  Priyanka Chopra returns to fighting baddies across the world in “Quantico.” And prep for “Infinity Wars” by watching “The Avengers.”  QUANTICO 10 p.m. on ABC. It was almost happily ever after for the secret agents Alex (Priyanka Chopra) and Ryan (Jake McLaughlin) at the end of the previous season of “Quantico,” as they escaped to Italy after helping to take down a power-hungry president. But as the third season begins on Thursday with the action picking up three years later, Alex has forged a new life in Italy with someone else. Of course, the stasis won’t last long, as Ryan recruits her to rescue Shelby (Johanna Braddy) from a notorious international arms dealer. And Marlee Matlin joins the cast.  MARVEL’S THE AVENGERS (2012) 7 p.m. on FX. Compared with “Avengers: Infinity War,” which arrives on Friday, the scope and cast of the original “Avengers” look paltry. But compared with any other movie, “Avengers” is an absolute behemoth, effectively combining characters from four different franchises into one. Captain America, Thor, the Hulk, Iron Man and other warriors team up to battle the Norse god Loki, who has acquired a dangerous weapon. In his New York Times review, A. O. Scott wrote that the movie’s best scenes weren’t the action sequences but the “moments in between, when the assembled heroes have the opportunity to brag, banter, flirt and bicker.” And at 11:35, some of the actors in “Infinity War” — Don Cheadle, Benedict Cumberbatch, Elizabeth Olsen, Winston Duke — stop by to chat on JIMMY KIMMEL LIVE! on ABC. NFL DRAFT 8 p.m. on Fox and ESPN. The perpetually ill-fated Cleveland Browns have the first pick in this year’s draft. They need a quarterback, but which one will they take — Sam Darnold, Josh Allen or someone else? GREY’S ANATOMY 8 p.m. on ABC. The resilient Shondaland show was just picked up for a 15th season — the same number as “ER,” the longest-running prime-time medical drama. In this episode, the hospital brings in crisis management when a prominent patron is accused of sexual harassment. FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS on Hulu and Amazon Prime. “Rise,” a high school musical drama from a “Friday Night Lights” executive producer, Jason Katims, has received mixed reviews in its first season. It’s probably a safer bet to go straight to his former project, which burrows into the lives of a Texas town’s residents with stunning empathy. After being dropped from Netflix last year, the show popped back up recently on Amazon Prime and Hulu. It’s organized around a high school football team, but its focus isn’t really on the sport so much as on the relationships between the people surrounding it. These include the stoic Coach Taylor (Kyle Chandler) and his wife, Tami (Connie Britton), who serves as the school’s guidance counselor. A version of this schedule appears in print on April 26, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Thursday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 