Advertisement By CHRIS STANFORDAPRIL 30, 2018   (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Here’s what you need to know: • As it prepares for a meeting with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, the Trump administration sees a model for peacefully ending a hostile dictatorial state’s nuclear program: the disarming of Libya 15 years ago. Mr. Kim, however, is likely to draw a different lesson: The Libyan leader who agreed to disarm, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, was ousted and killed. South Korea announced on Sunday that Mr. Kim had agreed to abandon his nuclear weapons if the U.S. promised not to invade his country. But John Bolton, President Trump’s new national security adviser, noted that Pyongyang has promised that before. • Mr. Trump has vowed to end nuclear programs in both North Korea and Iran. Our Interpreter columnist argues that his different approaches to the two countries could muddle America’s global role. Advertisement • Saber al-Gerim is one of thousands of young Gazans who have joined a protest that few, if any, think can achieve its stated goal: a return for families to the homes they left behind in 1948, in what is now Israel. Advertisement Our correspondent spoke with Mr. Gerim about what motivated him to join the demonstration at the fence separating Gaza and Israel, during which 46 people have died over the past five weeks. The protests have not altered Israel’s longtime blockade of the territory and its two million residents. They are meant to build to a climax on May 15, Israel’s 70th anniversary and the day hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were expelled or fled. • Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, speaking at the end of a four-day, four-nation tour through the Middle East, expressed support today for Israel and its response to the protests. • “Please don’t let me die. I promise, I won’t ever do it again.” That’s the promise of Jerika Whitefield, one of a growing number of people who developed a heart infection from injecting drugs. • With methamphetamine use resurgent and the opioid crisis in the U.S. showing no signs of abating, doctors are facing the ethically fraught question of whether costly surgery is well spent on drug users whose addiction goes untreated. • The Democratic primary for governor next week pits Richard Cordray, a onetime director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, against Dennis Kucinich, a former congressman and presidential candidate. Both men are progressive, and the race offers a look at what type of candidate can speak to the Democrats’ base in a Midwestern bellwether state. Advertisement • The contest also serves as an early proxy for supporters of Senators Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders, two possible presidential candidates in 2020. A peace treaty between North and South Korea could bring reunions for the thousands of families who have been separated for more than six decades. • U.S. allies are bracing for the end of temporary exemptions from steel and aluminum tariffs. • Sprint and T-Mobile have reached a deal to merge, betting that regulators will finally allow the American wireless market to shrink to three players. We explain how such a merger might affect your cellphone bill. • As Amazon looks for a second headquarters, it’s trying to avoid the problems associated with its hometown, Seattle: soaring housing costs and paralyzing traffic. • Closing arguments in the AT&T-Time Warner merger case are among the headlines to watch this week. • U.S. stocks were mixed on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today. Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • Help someone  with cancer through imaginative caregiving. • Spot and overcome your hidden weaknesses. • Recipe of the day: Asparagus with brown butter goes with just about any main course. • More than 150 migrants, part of a caravan that headed north through Mexico from the border with Guatemala, have reached the frontier with the U.S. and hope to seek asylum. • Thousands  turned out for a vigil for the 10 people killed by the driver of a van in Toronto last week. Advertisement • Dr. Ronny Jackson, who withdrew from consideration for secretary of veterans affairs, is unlikely to return to his role as the president’s doctor. • The Australian government pledged hundreds of millions of dollars to try to rescue the Great Barrier Reef. • The comedian Michelle Wolf drew criticism from Trump administration figures and some journalists for jokes she made at the annual White House Correspondents’ Association dinner. At the yearly White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, the comedian’s jokes took unflinching aim at some of the notables in the room — and quickly opened a divide, largely but not entirely along partisan lines. • “Avengers: Infinity War” earned $630 million, the biggest global movie opening of all time. The Marvel film’s domestic take, $250 million, placed it behind only “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” when adjusted for inflation. • Detroit’s revival For 36 years, the city has been under some sort of oversight from state and federal authorities. A vote this afternoon is expected to end the intense scrutiny of its budget. On a visit last week,  we found further signs of recovery. “What brought me back? Economic indicators,” said one Detroiter who had moved away. • Staring down Bill Cosby The prosecutor Kristen Gibbons Feden delivered a fiery closing argument last week in the entertainer’s sexual assault retrial. “I’m a very loud person, and I don’t like seeing people get picked on,” she said in her first interview since the jury returned a guilty verdict. Get a nightly rundown of the day’s top stories, delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. • Scenes unseen: the summer of ’78 Six months ago, a conservancy official came across two cardboard boxes that had been sitting around for decades. Advertisement Inside were 2,924 color slides, pictures taken in parks across New York City. Here’s a selection of those images, unseen for 40 years. • Quotation of the day “We’ve literally had some continue using drugs while in the hospital. That’s like trying to do a liver transplant on someone who’s drinking a fifth of vodka on the stretcher.” — Dr. Thomas Pollard, a cardiothoracic surgeon in Knoxville, Tenn., on the difficulties of treating patients who develop a dangerous heart infection from injecting drugs like meth and opioids. • The Times, in other words Here’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles. • What we’re reading Jenna Wortham, a staff writer on our Magazine, recommends this piece in Elle: “The Netflix documentary series ‘Wild, Wild Country’ is ostensibly a show about a controversial guru and disastrous utopia in 1980s Oregon. But the true star is his personal secretary, Ma Anand Sheela: driven, hilarious, dangerous. This essay by the writer Tanaïs dissects the strange satisfaction of seeing her rage unfurl onscreen.” Natural wonder, honeymoon site and tourist attraction in two countries. By the time Niagara Falls was established as a New York State park on this day in 1885, it was already popular. A French priest is credited with telling the world about the waterfalls in the late 1600s. The region later became a place of escape for slaves fleeing the American South. (The Niagara Falls Underground Railroad Heritage Center opens this weekend.) Advertisement In the 1800s, tourists and honeymooners began to come in large numbers, with an 1851 report of up to 100,000 seasonal visitors. Daredevils helped make it popular. People walked on cables across it and went over the edge in barrels — including Anna Edson Taylor, the first recorded person to go over the falls and survive. Eventually such stunts were banned as too perilous. Just how dangerous Niagara can be is evident in this 1954 video showing the collapse of a section of American Falls. But despite an increase in kitschy attractions, perhaps not much has changed since a traveler in 1889 wrote: “One might, I imagine, spend two months here and not grow tired of the ever-varying beauty; but he would get tired of the ever-monotonous crowd.” Sarah Anderson wrote today’s Back Story. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here. Check out our full range of free newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com. An earlier version of this briefing misstated part of the name of the movie with the biggest global opening of all time. It is “Avengers: Infinity War,” not Wars. Follow Chris Stanford on Twitter: @stanfordc. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 