Advertisement By BRUCE FRETTSFEB. 5, 2018  It was a truly Super Sunday for movie fans — or at least for movie-trailer fans, as spots for more than a half-dozen features dropped during the game. That includes the teasers for “Solo: A Star Wars Story” and “The Cloverfield Paradox,” the sci-fi horror sequel Netflix sprang on a surprised public immediately after the Philadelphia Eagles’ equally shocking victory over the New England Patriots. So which trailers scored? Here’s the final tally. “A Quiet Place” (coming April 6) Director-star John Krasinski cut through all the noise with a largely silent and highly effective commercial for his family-in-jeopardy thriller with his real-life wife, Emily Blunt. Mr. Krasinski also appeared in an ad for Amazon’s new series, “Tom Clancy’s Jack Ryan” (in which he stars), making him the day’s trailer MVP. “Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom” (coming June 22) The sequel’s second trailer brings the terror home as dinosaurs invade a child’s bedroom. It also offers our first look at a pair of Brits, Rafe Spall and Toby Jones, joining the cast. Oh, and a volcano erupts, so there’s that, and the spot ends with a genuinely startling moment that had viewers jumping off their couches. “Skyscraper” (coming July 13) Dwayne Johnson is on a roll with “Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle” returning to the top of the box-office chart in its seventh weekend and the trailer for his monster movie “Rampage” (due April 20) generating strong buzz. This action flick, which casts him as a dad with a prosthetic leg who must rescue his family from a burning 240-floor building, looks to have a “Die Hard”-like appeal. Advertisement “Red Sparrow” (coming March 2) The commercial, titled “She’s Out of Your League,” adds nothing to an earlier trailer for the drama starring Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian spy who is trained to seduce and destroy enemies but falls for an American agent (Joel Edgerton). It also doesn’t make “Red Sparrow” seem different enough from Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) from the “Avengers” franchise. Speaking of which … “Avengers: Infinity War” (coming May 4) “So this is it — it’ all been leading to this,” is the first line of the this 30-second spot for Marvel’s sequel. Yet even with the Avengers, including Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) a.k.a. Iron Man, colliding with the Guardians of the Galaxy, the ad seems underwhelming compared with the exhilarating trailer for the imminent “Black Panther.” Don’t blink or you’ll miss that film’s star, Chadwick Boseman, here. Fans may be the ones asking, “So this is it?” “Mission: Impossible — Fallout” (coming July 27) The 30-second ad shown during the game cut together scenes of Ethan Hunt (Tom Cruise) running, jumping and crashing various vehicles. In short, it made “Fallout” look a lot like the first five “Mission: Impossible” movies. The two-and-a-half minute trailer released online gives longer glimpses of his new co-stars Angela Bassett and Henry Cavill as well as a better explanation of the plot. But will audiences choose to accept it? We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 