Advertisement By DANIEL VICTOR and LANCE BOOTHAPRIL 29, 2018  Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead. 1. The sight of North Korea’s Kim Jong-un meeting with South Korea’s Moon Jae-in to majestic choreography riveted the world on Friday, but now comes the hard part. The leaders agreed at their unprecedented meeting to remove all nuclear weapons from the peninsula and seek a peace treaty. South Korean officials shared more details of the talks on Sunday, saying that Mr. Kim had told them he would give up the weapons if the U.S. promised not to invade his country. But the vows of peace have weakened President Trump’s leverage as he prepares for his own meeting with Mr. Kim. And Mr. Trump’s inconsistent approach to Iran and North Korea risks sending the message that American promises are empty, Max Fisher writes. Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. Here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, and our crossword puzzles. Advertisement _____ 2. Bill Cosby’s conviction in his sexual assault trial was cheered as a potential watershed moment for sexual abuse victims in the #MeToo era. Advertisement But it was also an anomaly. The deck is still stacked against sexual assault victims, and convictions remain difficult to obtain. Our critic Wesley Morris writes that Mr. Cosby had once been a foundational model for the man he hoped to become, and that Cliff Huxtable, the character Mr. Cosby famously portrayed, was the perfect cover for the actor’s misdeeds. _____ 3. President Trump is rejecting the growing consensus that Republicans are in danger of losing the House and Senate in the 2018 midterm elections. His advisers and party officials are worried his confidence could mean that he ignores or undermines their strategy. This week, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, the White House physician, withdrew his nomination to be secretary of Veterans Affairs, even as President Trump defended him from a litany of allegations. In the Supreme Court, the five-member conservative majority indicated it would approve a revised version of the president’s travel ban. For more on another head-spinning week in Washington, check out our roundup of the biggest stories in American politics. _____ 4. The authorities say the Golden State Killer — a.k.a. the East Area Rapist, the Original Night Stalker and the Diamond Knot Killer — is finally behind bars, ending a decades-long manhunt for someone who had terrorized California in the 1970s and 1980s. Joseph James DeAngelo, 72, a former police officer, was arrested on Tuesday after DNA evidence, paired with a genealogy website, led to a breakthrough. It was a triumph of law enforcement, but it made some scientists and privacy experts shudder at the implications. Advertisement _____ 5. America has never seen anything like the National Memorial for Peace and Justice, which opened Thursday in Montgomery, Ala., as a monument to the thousands of black people who have been lynched. It demands a reckoning for American white supremacy, one of the country’s more overlooked atrocities. Many of the nearly 4,400 victims had never been named in public. _____ 6. A revolt among women at Nike led to the ouster of several top executives. Interviews with more than 50 current and former employees revealed that women felt ignored, harassed and stymied in their careers, while working in a demeaning environment. “I came to the realization that I, as a female, would not grow in that company,” said Francesca Krane, who worked there for five years. The company said the problems were confined to “an insular group of high-level managers” who “protected each other and looked the other way.” _____ 7. One of our most conversation-starting stories of the week was about the beauty-standard denialism of “I Feel Pretty,” the Amy Schumer movie that suggests the only thing that matters is what’s inside. It’s not that simple, Amanda Hess writes. Beauty standards are stricter than ever — it’s just become taboo to admit that. _____ 8. Will moviegoers have fun at “Avengers: Infinity War”? Yes. Will they have enough? Almost. Advertisement So says A.O. Scott in his review, in which he acknowledges we’re all living in Marvel’s universe. It was a difficult movie to review, and the franchise is difficult to criticize. Our reporter joined Marvel superfans to watch the new film along with 11 others in a 31-hour marathon. Elsewhere, Ben Brantley, our theater critic, had high praise for the new Broadway production of “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child.” “In embodying the magical with such seeming spontaneity, ‘Cursed Child’ becomes the new gold standard for fantasy franchise entertainment on Broadway,” he wrote. _____ 9. Baker Mayfield to the Cleveland Browns. Saquon Barkley to the New York Giants. Sam Darnold to the New York Jets. Teams at the bottom of the N.F.L. have new players to dream on after this weekend’s draft, which has grown into a spectacle. Meanwhile, the N.B.A. and N.H.L. playoffs have advanced into the second round. And dig your finest hat out of storage and buy your supplies for mint juleps, because the Kentucky Derby is on Saturday. _____ 10. Finally, if you ever feel like you read too much about terrorists, crooks and other bad actors, here’s a name to remember: James Shaw Jr. Mr. Shaw, 29, was credited with saving several lives when he wrested an assault rifle from a gunman at a Waffle House restaurant near downtown Nashville. He was uncomfortable with the outpouring of respect and gratitude, but law enforcement officers and witnesses said he deserved it all. “I feel like everybody can do pretty much what I did,” he said. We have those stories and more of our signature journalism in this collection of 11 of our best weekend reads, and this roundup of good news. Advertisement For more suggestions on what to watch and read, may we suggest our list of movies that will be leaving Netflix in May, our music critics’ latest playlist or a glance at the New York Times best-seller list. We hope you have a tremendous week. _____ Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern. You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 