Advertisement By CHARLES McDERMIDAPRIL 29, 2018  (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Help for the Great Barrier Reef, more goodwill from Korea and the biggest global film opening of all time. Here’s what you need to know:  • The Turnbull administration unveiled a rescue plan for the imperiled Great Barrier Reef, setting aside 500 million Australian dollars ($379 million U.S.) in what would be the largest single investment for reef protection in the country’s history. But after years of damage from warming waters caused by climate change, the reef’s prognosis is grim. Separately, the trial of Cardinal George Pell is finally making his hometown, the old gold-rush city of Ballarat, face its role as the epicenter of a Catholic pedophile ring. _____ • South Korean officials offered more surprising details of North Korea’s diplomatic turnabout. Advertisement They said that the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, had pledged to give up his nuclear weapons if Washington agreed to formally end the Korean War and promised not to invade. Above, Mr. Kim embraced the South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, on Friday. Advertisement For the U.S., the overtures threaten to erode economic sanctions and complicate President Trump’s threats of military action. This short video tracks Mr. Kim’s extreme image makeover. _____ • The new U.S. secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, is in the Middle East, seeking to gather regional support for new sanctions against Iran. The visit to Saudi Arabia, Israel and Jordan, began just two days after Mr. Pompeo was sworn in. President Trump is set to decide by May 12 whether to pull out of the 2015 nuclear deal, which is still supported by China, Russia and European powers. Mr. Pompeo brought a clear message to the Saudis: Stop the 11-month blockade of Qatar so a united front against Iran can succeed. _____ • “Avengers: Infinity War” scored the biggest global film opening of all time — an estimated $630 million — $380 million in 52 international markets and $250 million in the U.S. The previous record was $543 million, set last year by “The Fate of the Furious.” Even more remarkable: The film, the latest Marvel superhero movie from Disney, won’t open in China until May 11. • A revolt among women at Nike’s corporate headquarters led to the ouster of several top executives. Interviews revealed that women felt ignored, harassed and stymied in their careers, while working in a demeaning environment. Advertisement • The planned merger of Sprint and T-Mobile, the third- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless players, brings Masayoshi Son, the founder of SoftBank, a major step closer to taking on the American telecommunications giants AT&T and Verizon. • Australia, the European Union and other American allies are worried that the Trump administration may not extend their exemptions from steep tariffs on steel and aluminum. That decision, due Tuesday, and the U.S. treasury secretary’s later visit to China are among the headlines to watch for this week.  • Samsung, Google and Facebook are among the major platforms to replace a handgun emoji with a toy water pistol. • Bob Dylan has a new gig: whiskey distributor. Our taste tester tried the Heaven’s Door brand’s three offerings, and liked the oaky notes in the Straight Tennessee Bourbon best. •  Here’s a snapshot of global markets. • In Thailand, more than a thousand people protested in the northern city of Chiang Mai against a luxury housing project near a sacred mountain. It was one of the largest protests since the military government took power in 2014. [Reuters] • Senior Australian officials denied “an extraordinary leak of top secret correspondence“ suggesting that the nation’s secretive cybersecurity agency had plans to spy on Australians. [The New Daily] • Taiwan’s president, Tsai Ing-wen, asked about relations with China in the wake of the historic meeting of Korean leaders, said she would be willing to meet President Xi Jinping “for peace and stability.” [Agence France-Presse] • The White House correspondents’ annual dinner was overshadowed by a raunchy routine by the comedian Michelle Wolf, which included sharp jabs at prominent women in the Trump administration. [The New York Times] Advertisement • A 20-year-old Japanese actress who won a sexual-harassment settlement from a director plans to use the money to start a #MeToo group for Japan’s entertainment industry. [The Asahi Shimbun] •  Pope Francis is finding himself more isolated as global political trends shift. [The New York Times] • More than 600 people were evacuated from Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology because of a mistaken a gas leak. The real cause of the odor: rotting durian. [A.P.] • Look, no license! A Briton was banned from driving for 18 months after being videotaped sitting in a Tesla with his hands behind his head, cruising at 40 miles per hour. [The New York Times] Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life. • You can make use of a financial planner regardless of your income. • Make yourself aware of the more subtle symptoms of heart disease. • Recipe of the day: Asparagus with brown butter goes with just about any main course. • Polixeni Papapetrou, one of Australia’s boldest photographers and artists, died over the weekend near Melbourne at 57. Here’s a look back at her life and her haunting images, such as this self-portrait from her 2018 series “My Heart.” • One of our most-discussed recent stories was about “I Feel Pretty,” the Amy Schumer movie that attests that it’s what’s inside us that matters. It’s not that simple, our critic at large writes. Beauty standards are stricter than ever — it’s just become taboo to admit that. Advertisement • How the Golden State Killer left a trail: A serial rapist and murderer in California flaunted his power as well as his belief that he could elude accountability forever. He was wrong. The breakthrough came via a public genealogy website. Natural wonder, honeymoon site and tourist attraction in two countries. By the time Niagara Falls was established as a New York State park on this day in 1885, it was already popular. A French priest is credited with telling the world about the waterfalls at the border of the United States and Canada in the late 1600s. The region later became a place of escape for slaves fleeing the American South. (The Niagara Falls Underground Railroad Heritage Center opens this weekend.) In the 1800s, tourists and honeymooners began to come in large numbers, with an 1851 report of up to 100,000 seasonal visitors. Daredevils helped make it popular. People walked on tightropes across it and went over the edge in barrels — including Anna Edson Taylor, the first recorded person to go over the falls and live. Eventually such stunts were banned as too dangerous. Just how dangerous Niagara can be is evident in this 1954 video showing the collapse of a section of American Falls. But despite an increase in kitschy attractions, perhaps not much has changed since an 1889 travel guide: ”One might, I imagine, spend two months here and not grow tired of the ever-varying beauty; but he would get tired of the ever-monotonous crowd.” Advertisement Sarah Anderson wrote today’s Back Story. _____ Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.  And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.  Browse our full range of Times newsletters here. What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 