Advertisement Supported by Also, the Meghan Markle effect and how LeBron James and the Cavaliers suited up in Thom Browne. By Vanessa Friedman Hello and happy Friday — or, as it is known in my house, “Infinity War” Day. Yes, we have been waiting with bated breath for the latest Avengers Marvel extravaganza to hit the big screen. I’m not ashamed to admit it. I love a blockbuster. I don’t even need to justify going as “research” — though it is that, too. Those bright shiny colors! That leather cat suit! Those combat trousers! These images will be so ubiquitous, the details can’t help but seep into our wardrobes.  Indeed, this has been an unusually big week for external events that I bet will influence fashion. Aside from the Marvel flick, there was the debut of Season 2 of “The Handmaid’s Tale.” If the first season sparked a renaissance in red cloaks-as-protest wear, this time around my money is on the faded blues and storm cloud grays of the Unwomen in the Colonies. Then there was the debut of royal baby #3, who is bound to be a mini-influencer in the vein of older siblings William and Charlotte (whose outfit to meet her new baby brother sold out pretty much instantaneously.)  However, it was their mother’s camera-ready hair and makeup and cherry red dress, donned a few hours after giving birth, that got everyone talking. Personally, I hope that is not an influence on anyone: the idea that one should look blow-dried to perfection immediately after having a baby is entirely unrealistic; another example of the “beauty standard denialism” my colleague Amanda Hess wrote about this week in reference to Amy Schumer’s new movie, “I Feel Pretty.” Still, we are definitely on the verge of another major royal influencer as Meghan Markle makes the transition from “Suits” (yes, I watched the final episode) to Kensington Palace. The way her fashion choices push purchasing buttons in the rest of us amazed me when I started collecting the data, and then got me thinking about why.  You can read my hypothesis below (and send me some of your own). Or check out the deeply moving story of some of the survivors of the Rana Plaza factory disaster, and the inside scoop on LeBron James’s strategic rationale for convincing his Cleveland Cavalier teammates that they all needed to suit up pregame in Thom Browne. And if anyone is going to be in New York between now and October 8, l suggest you stop by the New-York Historical Society and take in the exhibit “Walk this Way: Footwear from the Stuart Weitzman Collection of Historic Shoes.” You’ll never think about footwear in quite the same way again. Now excuse me while I go reserve my multiplex tickets. Q: All the things in the stores that are supposed to be cooler, aren’t. Seersucker needs to come back. Can it be made from hemp and bamboo and cotton? I’ve had to scour Goodwill and Amazon, with delightful but very rare results at Goodwill and depressing results on Amazon. Please, find some artist to find a way to do updated seersucker, preferably before the next 110-degree heat wave with 80 percent humidity? — Jan, California A: It’s true, if Alfred Lord Tennyson had been a fashion scribe, he might well have noted, “In the Spring a young man’s” — or woman’s — “fancy lightly turns to thoughts of seersucker.” Few fabrics say “warm weather” as directly as the pastel-and-white striped, slightly crinkly cotton kind. That’s why it is one of the only fabrics (as far as I know, though I did not have time for comprehensive research, so I am hedging my bets) that was given its own official day: June 8, 2017 was designated National Seersucker Day by U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy. I remember it clearly because it was also the day James Comey testified before Congress, and while grilling the former FBI director, lots of Senate interlocutors including Dianne Feinstein were in seersucker compliance.  The point being that while seersucker may not be on-trend this fashion season, it has not gone away, and there are still plenty of places you can get options. On the higher end, Thom Browne and Brooks Brothers both have multiple styles and cuts for both men and women. So do J. Crew, Land’s End (some great cropped capri pants), Vineyard Vines and even Uniqlo.  I’d actually advise seeing this one as an investment piece, though, as I think it’s a perennial. Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.@VVFriedman Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 