Advertisement Supported by Letters To the Editor: Re “An Article of Impeachment Against Trump,” by David Leonhardt (column, Jan. 29): We often say it is the cover-up and not the underlying crime that results in the downfall of those who abuse their office. That may be the case, but only because the cover-up may be a bit easier to prove. President Trump fears the F.B.I. and the Mueller investigation because he knows more of what he has done than we do. Given our politics at the moment, unless those investigations can ultimately give us a clearer picture of what has gone on, he may survive in office. Those are the stakes before us. Despite what many legal scholars may opine, there is nothing in the Constitution that says that a sitting president cannot be indicted in a criminal court. Impeachment and indictment are not mutually exclusive. An indictment of a sitting president may be exactly what we need to wake us from the nightmare we are sleeping through. BRUCE NEUMAN, WATER MILL, N.Y. To the Editor: Re “Justice Under Attack: Why Does Mr. Trump Fear the Truth?” (editorial, Jan. 27): Your editorial and David Leonhardt’s column cite convincing evidence to suggest that President Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice. Mr. Leonhardt cites as precedent the articles of impeachment against Presidents Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton. However, neither stresses the most crucial element: What is being obstructed is the investigation into the corruption of our democracy by a hostile foreign power. The Clinton impeachment charges of perjury and obstruction never gained traction with the public because the American people recognized that even if the president may have technically violated the law, his actions were never meant to harm the country but were simply efforts to conceal a tawdry consensual dalliance. Those who advocate Mr. Trump’s impeachment must continually stress his effort to harm the United States by preventing the emergence of evidence to explain how our democracy was corrupted by a hostile nation in the 2016 election. HAROLD J. SMITH, WHITE PLAINS To the Editor: Re “In Congress, Only Gloom Is Bipartisan” (news analysis, front page, Jan. 28): While we have an embarrassing and dangerous president, talk of impeachment is not the solution. The result would be an even greater problem: Mike Pence as president. Our country can withstand a president who is trying to move the country backward if the constitutional checks and balances are allowed to work. Unfortunately a weak Congress is not doing its duty. The strident partisan politics has caused gridlock and prevents any significant progress. The real danger to our country is the continued demonization of people with contrasting ideas. The only solution continues to be in the hands of the governed. We must elect a strong collaborative Congress that will take the lead and draft laws favored by the large majority of Americans and send them to the president with a veto-proof majority. JAMES MCMANUSGLASTONBURY, CONN. To the Editor: Re “Little Urgency by Republicans on Legislation to Protect Special Counsel” (news article, Jan. 29): Protect Robert Mueller? Quite to the contrary, Republicans are set to release a memo by Representative Devon Nunes’s staff alleging that the F.B.I. abused its powers. This is their last-ditch full-fledged attempt to discredit the Russia investigation. President Trump will then say he read the memo and it is so disturbing that he has to end this investigation and fire Mr. Mueller. This is their end game. STEVE BAKER, LOS ANGELES Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 