 This Super Bowl weekend, whether you are rooting for the New Orleans Saints or that other team, there is a dog pile of apps to enhance the game, although I will acknowledge not as many as I would like for some handsets.  The Super Bowl app yardage leader is the iPhone. The iTunes app store offers the official NFL Superbowl Program, formatted for your phone, for $4.99. There is a $1.99 Saints-focused WhoDatApp, which has a roster and player data, Twitter updates from Saints players (I wouldn’t count on a lot of Tweets during a game), and an archive of Bobby and Deke sports talk radio shows, although you need a Wi-Fi connection for audio.  There is an Indianapolis-specific app for $1.99, with a schedule, roster and statistics. The free ESPN ScoreCenter app also offers game statistics as well as scoring alerts, just in case you are momentarily distracted by the barbecue. If you need to get out of the house, the free Fan Finder app will help pinpoint sports bars near you.  Close behind is a single app, but it’s a doozy. Sprint has preloaded the NFL Mobile Live app on 100 models of its phones, and not just smartphones, but semi-smart phones like the LG Rumour and Samsung Reclaim. If the app isn’t on your phone, text 7777 for a download. It’s free, but it will use data minutes. The NFL Mobile Live shows a Twitter feed from NFL players and personalities, and you will be able to see live programming from the NFL Network during the game. The Android market is a little skimpy. There are some all-news apps, some fantasy football apps, but I found just one specific Super Bowl app. Tt is the $1.39 Cajun Super Bowl language quiz, which lets you look up words you might hear from fans cheering the Saints in a N’awlins patois. The BlackBerry market is equally thin, with no specific Super Bowl apps that I could see. The best I could do was to find team themes for your phone at $5.99 each. Oddly, the description of the Saints theme pack cites the helmet’s “lucky blue horseshoe.” Suspicious, but I’m from Baltimore. I am predisposed to think Indianapolis is up to something sneaky. Gadgetwise is a blog about everything related to buying and using tech products. From figuring out which gadget to buy and how to get the best deal on it to configuring it once it’s out of the box, Gadgetwise offers a mix of information, analysis and opinion to help you get the most out of your personal tech.     All the regular features on the Gadgetwise blog can now be found on the Personal Tech section front. Thank you for reading.Read more…     FX-Sport VR1 Programmable Personal Trainer Headphones are a smart concept – a pair of headphones with a built-in coach, or virtual competitor. Read more…     Online file storage services like Dropbox let you share files with people who do not have an account with the company.Read more…     Mobile apps may have useful reasons for requesting your location information, while others just want to show you local advertising.Read more…     Amazon’s store for Android apps has a Test Drive feature that lets you see an app in action before you buy or download it.Read more… Follow Advertisement 