SUNDAY PUZZLE — There is nothing more important than looking after your health, and Finn Vigeland is back today to remind us to see our DOCTORs. If you look carefully, you’ll find plenty of them in today’s crossword. Thank goodness for those Sunday puzzle titles. You read them, don’t you? If you’re just joining us, the Sunday crossword is the only one in The New York Times that runs with a title and it’s a leg up to the theme, if you need one. Mr. Vigeland has added the letters “DR” (the abbreviation for “Doctor”) to a set of common phrases and then clued them in a wacky way. Some of these work better for me than others, and I noticed that the ones that seemed stretchy to me were the ones that the 113A revealer, THE DOCTOR IS IN, matched most closely, which were the theme entries that had DR on the inside. For example, it took me a while to parse DO DR. NO HARM (from the phrase “do no harm”) and BABY DR. RUTH (from the candy bar Baby Ruth). Anyway, here is the full theme set: 23A: DR. PEPPER SPRAY (DR. Pepper soda + pepper spray) 34A: BABY DR. RUTH (Baby Ruth candy bars + DR. Ruth Westheimer) 48A: DR. WHO’S YOUR DADDY (DR. WHO* + “Who’s your daddy?”) 64A: DR. J CREW (Basketball’s DR. J + clothing catalog J. Crew) 85A: THE WIZARD OF DR. OZ (DR. [Mehmet] Oz + “The Wizard of Oz”) 98A; DO DR. NO HARM (The phrase “Do no harm” + Dr. No)  *Side note for my fellow BBC “Doctor Who” nerds: Yes, the show is actually called “Doctor Who” with the DR. spelled out. Please re-holster your sonic screwdrivers and let’s move on. Some great nontheme fill here today. I particularly liked TEAM U.S.A., “AT” SIGNS, MAY I SEE, SLAYS (used in a fairly modern sense), SUPER BOWL M.V.P., MT. POCONO, HUG IT OUT, PRESSES ON, JDATE and JLAW, SETH ROGEN and SAN FRANCISCO,  I thought that Mr. Vigeland’s cluing was fair and that there weren’t too many really twisty clues, but some of them go back pretty far. In order to help our younger solvers, let’s introduce a few people who pop up in crosswords that solvers should get to know: – Herbert LOM was probably best known in the United States for playing Chief Inspector Dreyfus in the “Pink Panther” films starring Peter Sellers, and he was hilarious. Primarily known in that role for his nervous laugh and eventual twitch as Inspector Clouseau inadvertently drove him insane. – Peggy LEE was a jazz and pop music singer and whether or not you know it, you know who she is. Have you ever watched the Disney movie “Lady and the Tramp”? She voiced the role of Peg, and sang that vampy number, “He’s a Tramp”: – Dr. J is the nickname of the great Julius Erving. – DR. RUTH Westheimer is an American sex therapist and media personality who became a cultural icon of sorts in the 1980s for her frank and enthusiastic talk on television, her petiteness and a German accent that seemed incredibly appropriate for a psychologist. Ironically, DR. RUTH released a book with the same title as today’s revealer. – DR. NO was a James Bond villain who was the main antagonist in the 1957 novel and 1962 film of the same name. He was the one of the inspirations for Mike Myers’s character Dr. Evil in the “Austin Powers” films. – JANET Weiss is one half of the couple that winds up at Dr. Frank N. Furter’s  castle during the 1975 cult film “Rocky Horror Picture Show.” She was played by Susan Sarandon. If you’ve never seen it, check this out and then go watch the rest of the film.  – YASIR Arafat was  the leader of the Palestinian Liberation Organization, president of the Palestinian National Authority and a founder of the Fatah paramilitary group. Let’s hear from Mr. Vigeland: This is my first add-a-letter-and-create-a-wacky-phrase puzzle in The Times, and my 10th New York Times puzzle overall. Considering my penchant for puns, I’m surprised it took this long! DR WHO’S YOUR DADDY is definitely my favorite themer. (DR WHO’S ON FIRST was another contender for the Dr. Who entry, but this one fit better … and made me laugh more.) Sundays can be a slog to solve sometimes, but they are certainly a lot of fun to construct given the larger canvas to play with. I really enjoyed fitting in entries like SUPERBOWL MVP (so many consonants!), SETH ROGEN, SAN FRANCISCO, FRAT BROS, HUG IT OUT and OH BOO HOO, as well as introducing shorter stuff like JDATE and JLAW (and who doesn’t love those J’s?). I’m pleased that Will and Joel kept probably 90 percent of my clues. I’ve always preferred gridwork to cluing, so it’s a nice affirmation to see that I’m getting more on track with variety, difficulty and length of clues. Everyone feeling better now? Good! On to the Monday puzzle we go. But first … Your thoughts? Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz. Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold.  Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages.  Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving.     The New York Times’ weekly puzzle blog Numberplay has moved to a new and improved location. Come check it out!Read more…     Try these Olympics-themed puzzles from Po-Shen Loh, team lead for Team U.S.A, winner of this year’s International Mathematical Olympiad. Also — If you could train with the best, would you? Perspectives from Olympians Gwen Jorgensen and Clark Burckle. Read more…     Activate your Olympic spirit with a challenge from the Rio resident and mathematician Marco Moriconi.Read more…     Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette help us get organized.Read more…     Ruth Margolin returns with a puzzle that’s double the fun.Read more… Follow Advertisement 