Advertisement By SUSAN M. NOVICKJAN. 21, 2009  During football season, Michael Mosolino, the owner of the Deli Counter in Southampton, makes sure the finger food is ready to go. A brick  oven in the corner turns out crusty cheese pizzas ($12.50) with a choice of a dozen toppings,  including chicken parmigiana and fresh broccoli ($21.95) and “Uncle Tony’s Clam  and Bacon” ($16.50). The deli case features platters of chicken wings glazed with buffalo, teriyaki or honey mustard sauce and served with a side of blue cheese and celery ($4.99 a pound;  $45 for a small platter feeding 15 people). There is beef chili, served with  cornbread ($4.50 a cup; $15 a gallon) and mini-cheeseburger “poppers” ($1.50). But for refueling at  halftime, Mr. Mosolino’s most valuable players  are what he calls “superheroes.” The stuffed sandwiches are at least three feet long and nearly a foot and a half tall, layered with enough meats, cheeses and condiments to satisfy a linebacker’s appetite ($7.99 to $8.99 for a regular hero; $15.95 a foot for a superhero). Many are named after the Food Network stars who are shown cooking on two flat-screen TVs above the deli counter. Advertisement The Bobby Flay is piled high with barbecued pulled pork, Vermont cheddar cheese and sautéed onions. The Mario Batali superhero, stacked with soppressata, salami, mortadella, prosciutto and cheeses, weighs in at three and a half  pounds per foot of sandwich, according to Mr. Mosolino. “I always advise my customers not to over-order the sandwiches,” he said.  “They’re huge.” Twenty-four hours’ notice is required for local home delivery during the big game. The Deli Counter Fine Foods and Catering, 623 Hampton Road,  Southampton; (631) 283-1774.  Monday to Saturday,  6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Open Superbowl Sunday noon to 8 p.m.  Advertisement SUSAN M. NOVICK  A version of this review appears in print on , on Page LI9 of the New York edition with the headline: Calling All Linebackers.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 