Advertisement By KATHRYN SHATTUCKNOV. 23, 2003  YOU can't stay young forever. But you can stay popular, as ''All Growed Up,'' the 10th-anniversary ''Rugrats'' special, proved on July 21, 2001. That evening, 70 percent of children in America between 2 and 11 tuned in to watch Angelica, Tommy, Chuckie and the rest of the Finster-Pickles clan morph from diaper- to designer-clad youngsters. ''The ratings compared to Superbowl shares, and I remember I cried,'' said Cyma Zarghami, executive vice president and general manager of Nickelodeon. ''I said, 'We have to make that show.''' Two years later, ''All Grown Up,'' a new half-hour animated series based on that special, will again propel the baby brigade into teenland when it has its premiere on Saturday at 8 p.m. on Nickelodeon. The spinoff opens with four back-to-back episodes, starting with ''Truth or Consequence,'' in which Tommy (E.G. Daily) must choose between friendship and art when he enters a filmmaking contest and shoots his buddies in a less than flattering light, and ending with ''Susie Sings the Blues,'' in which Susie (with the voice of Cree Summer), convinced by a talent agent that she's going to be the next Britney, upstages Angelica (Cheryl Chase). Although the characters' rapid growth spurts them ahead a decade, the wonder years are not lost. Tommy uses his budding directorial skills to present flashbacks to past ''Rugrats'' episodes and to moments from the years in between. Advertisement ''I think the exciting thing about this series is that we'll have the opportunity to tell more individual stories,'' Ms. Zarghami said. ''The greatest thing about aging up is that characters' personalities just get more developed.''  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. For instance, Chuckie (Nancy Cartwright), sick of being labeled ''vanilla,'' takes a defiant stand, especially when it comes to defending his sister, Kimi (Dionne Quan). When Lil decides she needs some separation from her twin, Phil (Kath Soucie does the voices of both), Dil (Tara Strong) fills her shoes at his friend's side. Angelica, unfortunately, is still less than angelic, but also less intimidating. Advertisement ''There is a surprising number of older kids who currently watch the Rugrats,'' Ms. Zarghami said, adding that she expects the show's core audience of 6-to-14 year olds will eagerly follow the gang as they embark on adventures of self-discovery. ''Children feel like they've known these characters for so long.''   Kathryn Shattuck Time-Consuming Situation Don't be fooled by her looks. In ''Kim Possible: A Sitch in Time,'' a new movie to be shown Friday at 8 p.m. on Disney Channel, the girl next door musters enough mojo to fend off Dr. Drakken, Shego, Lord Monkey Fist and Duff Killigan as they tamper with the time-space continuum and send her flailing back to preschool and into the future. Freddie Prinze Jr., Raven and Kelly Ripa are among the stellar voices joining Christy Carlson Romano's Kim. Playing the Field Not every choreographed play at the 50-yard line is executed by a football team. In ''The 2003 New York State Field Band Championships,'' to be shown Thursday at 2:30 p.m. on Channel 21, the top high school marching bands from across the state (including Liverpool, above, the sixth-place winner in the national class at the Oct. 26 competition in Syracuse) will twist, turn and even run in formation. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 