By Gareth Bain and David Poole Aug 27, 2014 The New York Times Crossword is available through subscription only. WEDNESDAY’S PUZZLE — I solved this one from the top down, and was about to be incredibly disappointed with the outlying CONGER LINES until I got to the bottom and stumbled upon TUBER PLAYER. I knew that such a glaring odd-man-out wouldn’t pass muster. We haven’t seen David Poole since 2011, but today he returns in a collaboration with Gareth Bain, offering a theme that changes words ending in an “A” sound to ending in an “ER” sound. I thought that the clue for 17 Across’s CONGER LINES, “Libretto for ‘Eel Trovatore’?” was the most clever of the set, followed by 50 Across’s “One who knows the earnings report by heart?” for SALES QUOTER.  I also liked the long, nontheme downs WHAT A LAUGH and FOAM PEANUT both of which are making their debuts today. Clue(s) of the day for me were “Gig part” for MEG (referring to gigabytes and megabytes) and “Union station?” for ALTAR. “One who might have a collection of foreign stamps” eluded me for quite a while. Quite the throwback clue! Let’s hear from Dr. Bain and Mr. Poole: This puzzle was the first collaboration for both of us. David originally contacted Gareth via email, and we ended up sending each other several stalled crosswords. This one was Gareth’s, with the initial seed entry being TUBBY THE TUBER (which didn’t make it to the final cut.) Gareth didn’t have enough themers that he liked or themers of the right lengths.  After much wrangling, and a lot of creative ideas from both of us (FRANK ZAPPER, e.g.) we came to a mutually agreeable set and sent it off to Will, who liked some answers but asked for some new ones. This went on for about three rounds. Boy, is it difficult for three people to agree on what “pun” entries work! When we finally got the nod, I think we were both so excited we sent each other basically filled grids. This grid was David’s. although Gareth further revised it in a few places. The finished product is much better than the original one we submitted – we’re both very happy with it. Patience often pays off!  Thanks to Will for sticking with us on this one and for leaving so many of our clues alone! P.S. — Gareth also has today’s L.A. Times (solo) if you’d like to solve that! You can put an actor in a Mr. Potato Head costume, which is the most reasonable way to clue TUBER PLAYER, but I vastly prefer this: Your thoughts? In the August 25, 2014 mini puzzle, the answer to 1 Down, “Super Bowl winners in 2006,” was listed as the COLTS. The 2006 winners of the Superbowl were the Pittsburgh Steelers. We regret the error. Welcome to our conversation about word games. Here you'll find a new blog post for each day's crossword plus a bonus post for the Variety puzzle. Along with discussion about the day's challenge, you'll get backstage insights about puzzlemaking and occasional notes from The Times's puzzlemaster, Will Shortz. Deb Amlen is a humorist and puzzle constructor whose work has appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Onion and Bust Magazine. Her books, “It's Not P.M.S., It's You” and “Create Your Life Lists” are available where all fine literature is sold.  Numberplay is a puzzle suite that will be presented in Wordplay every Monday. The puzzles, which are inspired by many sources and are reported by Gary Antonick, are generally mathematical or logical problems, with occasional forays into physics and other branches of science. While written for adults, many of the concepts here are suitable for and can be enjoyed by math students of all ages.  Gary Antonick, who has created or edited over 100 logic and math puzzles for The New York Times, secretly believes every math problem can be solved using circles and straight lines. He is a visiting scholar at Stanford University, where he studies mathematical problem solving.     The New York Times’ weekly puzzle blog Numberplay has moved to a new and improved location. Come check it out!Read more…     Try these Olympics-themed puzzles from Po-Shen Loh, team lead for Team U.S.A, winner of this year’s International Mathematical Olympiad. Also — If you could train with the best, would you? Perspectives from Olympians Gwen Jorgensen and Clark Burckle. Read more…     Activate your Olympic spirit with a challenge from the Rio resident and mathematician Marco Moriconi.Read more…     Kurt Mengel and Jan-Michele Gianette help us get organized.Read more…     Ruth Margolin returns with a puzzle that’s double the fun.Read more… Follow Advertisement 