Advertisement FEB. 11, 2008  Tom Jolly, sports editor at The Times, is answering reader questions Feb. 11-15, 2008. (He previously answered questions in August 2006.) Questions may be sent to askthetimes@nytimes.com.  To move directly to the most recent answer, click here. Mr. Jolly has been an editor at The Times since 1993. He has served as a copy editor, assistant sports editor and assistant news editor. Before joining The Times he was a reporter and editor at newspapers in Ohio, Maryland and Pennsylvania. Other editors have answered questions in this column, including Executive Editor Bill Keller, Managing Editor Jill Abramson, Managing Editor John Geddes, Assistant Managing Editor Glenn Kramon, Associate Managing Editor Charles Strum, Obituaries Editor Bill McDonald, Director of Copy Desks Merrill Perlman, Metropolitan Editor Joe Sexton, Living Editor Trish Hall, Investigations Editor Matthew Purdy, National Editor Suzanne Daley, Digital News Editor Jim Roberts and Culture Editor Sam Sifton. Their responses and those of other Times editors are on the Talk to the Newsroom page. These discussions will continue in future weeks with other Times editors. The Well-Traveled Journeymen Advertisement Q. Why does The Times refer to athletes who play on several different teams as "journeymen"? I realize that it is very common throughout sports reporting but it is incorrect. "Journeyman" does not mean someone that makes a lot of journeys — as the NBC television show would have us believe. "Journeyman" means: There are several different definitions, but none of them have to do with a person taking journeys.   — Michael Ferrari Advertisement A. Dear Mr. Ferrari: This is why I love our readers! Right out of the box, a question about word usage. As you note, there are several definitions for "journeyman." The one that applies in this case is the second in Webster's: "any sound, experienced, but not brilliant craftsman or performer." In sports, in other words, someone who has built a career playing with different teams without ever rising to stardom. Was Giants' Championship a Fluke? Q. Evidently, no one expected the Giants to do as well as they did this year.  There was only one representative from the team in the Pro Bowl.  Was this a one-time fluke for the Giants?  Can we fully expect the Patriots to be gunning for them and anybody else standing in their path next year, to avenge their humiliation and failure to make history? Or has the league seen that they aren't invincible?   — Odehyah Gough A. Dear Ms. Gough: I don't think you could ever classify a Super Bowl championship as a "fluke." The Giants beat a lot of good teams to get into the Super Bowl and then won the title by beating the first team in league history to start the season with an 18-0 record. Whether the Giants can win it again next season is impossible to say. They're one of the youngest teams in the league and, more important, many of their key players still seem to have a lot of potential for development. But you've got to remember that the N.F.L. has perfected the art of parity, which made the Patriots' 18-0 start all the more remarkable but also created the chance for the Giants to pull it together at the end of the season and win the Super Bowl as a wild-card team. If you look at recent Super Bowl history, you'll see that several recent champions recovered from midseason slumps and finished the season on a hot streak, just as the Giants did. That same history shows that it's exceedingly difficult to get back to the Super Bowl the next season. Teams that did well are rewarded with tougher schedules for the next season and teams that did poorly get easier schedules. (Just look at what happened to the last two Super Bowl winners — the Colts and the Steelers.) The schedule changes and free agency mean that the margin between success and failure is often razor thin. Just look at what happened to the Jets in the past two seasons. Advertisement All of that is what makes the Patriots' success over the past few seasons so remarkable. But they've got some work to do, too. Many of their key players on defense are old for the N.F.L. and Randy Moss is a free agent. The bottom line: The N.F.L. has created a system that ensures that each new season will give several teams a chance to be champion. Where Did the Golf Scores Go? Q. Why is The New York Times omitting golf information (leaderboards, stats, money totals, etc.) from its online edition? This was reported previously, but is now not available. I've already sent two e-mails to your paper (sports and editorial departments) without receiving a response.   — Mark Orman A. I'm afraid I don't have a satisfactory answer for you. Our scoreboards are provided by a third party vendor, SportsNetwork. We took down the golf links after last season and the vendor's content (with our navigation and wrapper) should have been updated. But the vendor made some changes as to how they were serving some content and we have not had the opportunity to update our modules with the new links. We'll do what we can to get it updated this week. The Sweet Science and Other Combat Sports Q. In August 2006, you wrote in this forum, "Boxing has been in decline for a long time, though, and unless and until a captivating fighter comes on the scene and elevates the sport's profile, I can't see it getting more prominence than it receives now." Two questions. First, have you noticed any change? (I suspect not.) Second, are you disheartened, because next to baseball, in the 20th century boxing provided material for some of the best sports writing ever? (I would love to pitch you stories on the UFC, but frankly, it lacks the virulent grace of boxing.)  — Andy Bast A. Dear Mr. Bast: If anything, the decline has continued. It has been a long time since I've heard anyone in the general populace talking about boxing, or longing for a showdown between two fighters. Advertisement It has been interesting to watch the development of UFC — the Ultimate Fighting Championships — and its related mixed martial arts organizations. One thing about the MMA that will be interesting to follow is whether the organizers have learned anything from boxing organizers, who undermined their sport by creating so many competing federations. The result was that it made it more difficult for top fighters to face each other and create the rivalries that helped raise the profile of the sport. However, MMA organizers seem to be doing the same thing. As my colleague Jason Stallman points out: "Part of the appeal of MMA has always been the notion that it could determine, once and for all, which fighting discipline is the best, pitting an expert of, say, Russian sambo against a wrestling specialist, or Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu vs. kickboxing. But as the sport has grown and fractured into various leagues, fans don't necessarily get to see the very best fighters go head-to-head. The most glaring example of this is among the heavyweights. Fedor Emelianenko is generally regarded as the greatest heavyweight in the world. But he isn't affiliated with UFC, so whoever the UFC proclaims is the heavyweight champion probably really isn't. Emelianenko is affiliated with M1 Global; until he and UFC reach an agreement, fans are deprived of having a true world champion." Kickoff Time Was Off Q. How come there wasn't a newspaper in the country that was able to print the actual kickoff time for the Super Bowl? This year we were told kickoff was at 6:15 p.m. Eastern time. Reality is the ball wasn't booted off the kicker's foot until after 6:30 p.m. Can't your newspaper and others in the United States print the actual time of the kickoff or does the N.F.L. purposely withhold this information so as to garner more viewers for the commercials. I would think a reporter could uncover the accurate kickoff time for readers. The public should be allowed to know the actual start times for any sporting event, no?   — Joel Spitzer A. Dear Mr. Spitzer: One of the lawyers here told me he missed the end of the Giants-Packers game because he had a plane he had to catch. Is that what happened to you? Seriously, the N.F.L. listed the kickoff for 6:18 p.m. and to be honest, I'm more curious about how someone came up with that number. I doubt that they were trying to fake us out, but I'm sure you're right that Fox didn't mind if it got to run a few extra commercials. Believe me, we're always eager for events to end as quickly as possible — we've got deadlines, ya know — and we have no interest in misleading our readers about the start time for a game. A Name From the Past Q. Is Phil Cavaretta still alive and if so, where is he?   — Ray Iannicelli A. Dear Mr. Iannecelli: When last heard from, first baseman Phil Cavaretta, who played most of his career with the Chicago Cubs, was living in Atlanta. Professional Sports and Charities Q. Good day from Winnipeg, Canada, where it’s a balmy minus “somewhere in the mid-30s.”  So I cannot be faulted for being a couch potato this past weekend, and watching a few hours of golf. During this weekend’s telecast of the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am this weekend, either Jim Nance or Nick Faldo mentioned that golf, as a professional sports organization, donates more to charitable causes than all other professional sports organizations combined!  I would not doubt that to be true, given the nature of golf’s advertisements announcing all of the charities they are involved with.  Kudos to The PGA Tour and its managers and members! Advertisement Now, what does that say about the other professional sports and their charitable efforts? Possibly professional football, baseball, basketball and hockey are not far behind. Possibly they are just not as “showy” as The PGA.  Regardless, given the importance of charitable fund-raising in North America today, how could any of the “Big 4” professional sports associations not be ashamed that golf shows them up?  Available statistics (that is, statistics that I could find through a Google search) show that the average golfer’s purse, outside of Tiger Woods, is considerably less than the salaries of the average professional sports athlete.  USA Today’s Web site “Salary Databases” shows that, in 2006/2007, the top 25 athletes earned salaries (not including endorsements) as follows: Hockey:  $8,360,000.00 to $5,750,000.00 NFL:   $30,750,000.00 to $11,100,000.00 Baseball:  $23,428,571.00 to $13,250,000.00 Basketball:  $21, 000, 00.00 to $13,260,000.00 Statistics from www.pgatour.com show the top 25 golfers well below these figures, with the top earnings at $10,867,052.00 to $2,483.146.00.  No doubt, the “Big 4” are big givers.  And surely many athletes are less open about the large sums they do contribute; it is not so “seemly” to attract attention for the good works one pursues. But less than The PGA combined? No doubt, our society needs leadership when it comes to charitable giving, and we should only commend The PGA for doing just that.  The “Big 4” need to learn from The PGA, and start to brag.  Send the message that some of their income that the fans generate goes to support “X” charity.  Send the message that those of us who support professional sports can be involved too, and “here’s how.”  Leadership is needed from The “Big 4”!  They need to step up and surpass The PGA, given the incredible multiples that each of these leagues generates over and above professional golf. The New York Times has clout!!  How can you help? Postscript Daniel Kaplan, an editor at SportsBusiness Journal, was reading this Q&A and offers this regarding the PGA and charity: "The reason the PGA donates more than others is the events are charities themselves.  It would be as if a team was a charity itself.  It's not that the PGA has better charities, the reason is it is a charity." As Kaplan points out, last year the PGA topped $1 billion in total giving, a number that stretches back to the 1930s.  — Gary Ross, Winnipeg, Manitoba A. Dear Mr. Ross: Congratulations on the weather. It's frigid and snowing here. Very Winnipeg-like, I'd imagine. At any rate, we periodically report on the charitable endeavors and/or lack thereof concerning athletes, but your analysis is interesting and perhaps something we'll look into further. However, we're not in a position to force anyone to make contributions, regardless of our "clout," and I can't imagine anyone would think it would be responsible for us to do so. Most professional sports have their own charitable programs and probably could provide you with information about them if you so desire. Artificial Turf on High School Fields Q. I'd like to ask you what your opinion is of the local divisive and insidious issue of installing artificial turf and lights on school and town fields. Maybe it's happening in your community or a nearby community. Advertisement In my town of Bernardsville, N.J., the issue is the installation of artificial turf on the high school field, with the lights being promised in the future. In our town, unlike many other towns, in the 1950s we didn't decide to relocate the high school from the center of town to the outskirts, in anticipation of future population growth. The high school remained in a nice residential neighborhood and expanded the infrastructure there. These neighbors are leading the opposition of the installation. In West Caldwell, there was a referendum that halted the installation of artificial turf on the high school field. In Madison, this issue is two-fold: installation of artificial turf on the town's field and installation of lights on the high school field in the neighboring town of Chatham, which borders residents of Madison. In Chatham also, neighbors are opposing the installation of lights at another school field in Chatham. In the communities where the fields are located near residential neighborhoods, the issue is two-fold: "location, location, location" and possible future environmental, health, expense, and playing condition concerns vs "kids organized sports, kids organized sports, kids organized sports."  In other communities, where a neighborhood is not affected, the latter set of concerns are being raised which are pitted against proponents of kids organized sports.  This latter set of concerns are of recent origin, with articles in the NY Times in the fall, Bloomberg News in December, announcement by David Beckham in the summer, and the NY Giants vs San Francisco 49ers game on Oct 21, 2007 (during which the Fox commentators discussed the poor condition of turf field at Giant Stadium during the first half). I'm sure you understand the divisive nature of the issue. The insidious nature of the issue comes from the fact that it involves kid organized sports. Unlike when I was growing up, when we had few organized sports and had pick up games instead, kid organized sports now have a choke hold on many families and are touted as a cure to the ills of computer games, the internet, unsocial behavior, etc. It would take a very special athlete to speak out against artificial turf and lights. They would have to go against the wishes of their coaches and fellow athletes. A parent would be also reluctant, fearful of the impact that it might have on their child. Because it involves kids and because it is threatening, inhibiting, and ostracizing, it is an insidious issue to me. Ironically, in our town, I believe that there isn't a real need for the artificial turf....that simply revising the schedule of the games on our fields and doing good field maintenance will result in restoring the fields to being in good playing condition. But I have to battle to convince people of this.   — Pete Thurlow, Bernardsville, N.J. A. Dear Mr. Thurlow: We've written quite a bit about the zealousness with which many adults promote "youth" sports — in particular, you can search for articles by Bill Pennington. Issues about lighting and artificial turf for high school fields can be hot-button topics, as they apparently are in your town. I don't see how there can be a blanket answer for either matter. It obviously depends on the neighborhood and the finances of the school district. Is the Dog Show a Sport? Q. If the dog show is covered by the sports section, why not the Miss America Pageant, the cat show, "American Idol," chess and bowling?  (At least chess is a competition with an endurance aspect to it, and bowling requires an athletic talent regarding a ball.  Reading The Times, one would have no idea as to the identity of the successors to Ray Bluth, Don Carter, Carmen Salvino and Dick Weber.)  Or N.H.L. box scores?  (The whole world are not fans of the Rangers, Devils and Icelanders.)  Give me a break.  The dog show no more belongs in the pages of The Times Sports section than coverage of a debutante ball. Use the space for real sports!  — Dan Gantt A. Dear Mr. Gantt: My goodness, I didn't realize there were such rules about what does and doesn't go in the sports section! Come on, the dog show is only a couple of days each February. Most readers love our coverage, judging by Web traffic and most e-mailed lists. You're right that there's a big old world of sports, and we try to address that by looking for opportunities to write in-depth features, profiles and long pieces about interesting aspects of that world. As you'll see if you follow this conversation over the next couple of days, a lot of people would like us to provide more coverage of the sports they care about most. We have limited resources, though, and our mission is to pick and choose the subjects that we think will be of the most interest to the most readers. By the way, you might be surprised at the coverage we've given bowling. You can check it out on the Times Topics page for bowling. Advertisement Which Is the Greater Transgression? Q. It always seemed to me that the football cheating scandal this year was in some ways worse than the steroid issue in baseball. The Patriots were caught cheating this season, apparently had done so before and still were allowed to play in the postseason. Though it was fun to watch their loss in the last game (cheaters never prosper), they should have never been allowed to advance into the playoffs and Super Bowl. While I haven't yet figured out all the ways that this was worse than the situation in baseball I do know one way that it is. It is worse in that it was allowed by the American public to stand without appropriate penalty and it was not mentioned and covered enough by the media as the season wore on. Undefeated in regular season? Really? Can I get an asterisk? Compared to the steroid issue in baseball it was covered as if it were simply one missed call and not total corruption of the game. Why does Pete Rose remain banned from Cooperstown with Bill Belichek lauded still and "in" the game? Is baseball that much better of a game that we expect so much more? I've always thought so — say it is so Mr. Jolly!   — Richard Paul Hebert, New Orleans A. Dear Mr. Hebert: Your overall question — is baseball held to a different standard than the N.F.L. — is one that our columnists have explored several times, most recently by George Vecsey. It is fascinating, isn't it, that there's such angst about Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens while the drug-related suspensions of Shawne Merriman and Rodney Harrison elicit barely a shrug. Or, as you point out, that there wasn't more of an uproar about the Patriots' cheating investigation and the N.F.L.'s handling of it, at least until Senator Arlen Specter got involved. One thing I've got to clarify, though, is that there was a significant difference between the transgressions of Rose and Belichick. As Judy Battista reported, Belichick spied on other teams in an effort to gain an advantage. As Murray Chass reported, Rose bet on the outcome of games involving a team he was managing and his pattern of gambling sent signals to bookies and others who knew of his betting when he thought his team could win and when it couldn't. Women's Basketball Coverage Q. Why can't The Times treat women athletes on terms equal with men?  For more than two years I have been frustrated to see the differences in how you handle college basketball scores according to gender.  For men, we have AP rankings, and the ability to go back for an entire month to examine any prior result.  For women, we get big red color bars, no indication of national status and absolutely no chance to find out what happened yesterday unless we get up before the sun.  We need a Title IX for sports reporting.   — Karl M. Johnson, M.D. Q. I've noticed a significant increase in your coverage of women's basketball. First, thank you! Second, what prompted the change?   — Helen Wheelock, Woodside, Queens A. Dear Dr. Johnson and Ms. Wheelock: See what I meant about readers viewing us differently, depending on their perspective? Advertisement Dr. Johnson, your complaint about our coverage of women's basketball refers to our Web site and is related to the earlier question about the availability of golf scores. Those statistics are provided by a third party vendor; we simply don't have the personnel to be able to keep up with all of the statistical information in sports. Unfortunately, the amount of data that's available relates to the perceived interest in each sport. Like it or not, women's basketball has not yet achieved parity with men's basketball. As for Ms. Wheelock's observation, I confess that you're keeping closer track of that than I am. We look for good stories in all sports and even if women's basketball isn't yet on par with the men's game in popularity, it's got a significant following and lots of interesting topics. By the way, both of you might be interested to know that I heard an ESPN radio commentator saying he can't stand women's basketball and that there was no way The New York Times was going to force it on him. Again, it all depends on your perspective. A Little Baseball Terminology Q. In baseball, what is a walkoff home run?   — Bonnie Burdick A. Dear Ms. Burdick: Once you know the meaning, it's one of the most straightforward expressions in sports: A game-winning home run that is hit in the bottom half of the final inning, causing the fielders to walk off to the locker room. What About Soccer? Q. I have been disappointed in the coverage the Times has devoted to soccer for a long time. What should we in the soccer community be doing to encourage you to give more column inches to soccer?   — Jack Huckel, director of museum and archives, National Soccer Hall of Fame and Museum, Oneonta, N.Y. A. Dear Mr. Huckel: Your lament is familiar. (And repeated in different forms above and probably below.) There are so many sports and we have only so many resources to cover them with. However, I'd encourage you to check out our lively Goal blog, maintained primarily by Jack Bell and Jeffrey Marcus with contributions from around the globe. It's got a robust following and may surprise you with its depth and breadth. Advertisement The Daily Miracle Q. Could you please describe how The New York Times sports section is puttogether on a typical evening in the newsroom and how various responsibilities are divided? I'm sure it's a fascinating process requiring a good deal of planning.   — Bob Liepa A. Dear Mr. Liepa: Sometimes, it's a piece of cake. Sometimes, it's a small miracle. Sometimes we say, "If readers could see this, they wouldn't believe it ..." Seriously, thanks for this question. It gives me a chance to say a little bit about the fantastic people I'm fortunate enough to work with. Keep in mind, we're not putting the newspaper together every day, we're putting a Web page and a newspaper together every day. It's not the same thing and it requires a lot of choreography with our reporters, columnists, editors, photographers, Web producers, graphic artists, art directors and page designers. On the Web, we've got blogs, video, audio, slide shows and other Web-exclusive elements as well as the stories that go in the paper. Much of the planning and implementation for the Web is handled by Jeffrey Marcus, our supremely talented and dedicated daytime producer. We've also got a crew of editors who start early and help orchestrate what stories will go onto the Web and into the paper each day. Others come in as the day evolves to edit stories, write headlines and picture captions and handle the production of the newspaper end of things. In truth, of course, what we do isn't confined to individual days; it involves long-term planning. The 24-7 nature of our Web site means that we've broken the old day-to-day cycle that producing only a morning newspaper once created. Our coverage of the Clemens hearings is an example of that. Our reporters Duff Wilson and Michael Schmidt have been leading the way in covering that story, breaking news on the Web day after day and, at the end of each day, distilling it all into stories for what the business-side folks now refer to as our print product but which we still like to call the newspaper. Advertisement On Tuesday, Harvey Araton wrote a Web-only column on three questions he would ask Clemens if he were a congressman at the hearing. Today, Alan Schwarz blogged from the hearing to give readers a live running assessment of what was going on. At the same time, we provided steaming video provided by A.P. Shortly after the hearings end, our reporters will post their first reports of the hearings, then they'll get to work on the stories they'll write for the newspaper. If they encounter more news along the way, they'll update the Web versions of their articles. Separately, editors Sandy Keenan, Jay Schreiber, Jason Stallman and Mike Abrams will be planning the rest of the day, both in regard to what else we'll put on the Web and what will go in the paper. The trick there is that, unlike the Web, we have a limited amount of space for what goes into the newspaper — roughly the equivalent of six full pages worth of articles, photos and other information. Because of that, we have to prioritize which articles go when and how long certain articles will be. That equation is constantly changing, of course, because news develops in unforeseen ways. In the afternoon and early evening a fresh crew of editors led by Carl Nelson, Jim Luttrell, Toni Monkovic and Rich Ehrhard come in and take over the process of putting the paper together. There are four deadlines each night — 9:30 for the first national edition, 10:30 for the first city edition, 11:30 for the second edition of both papers and 12:30 for the final city edition. Obviously, live events are ending throughout that time period and depending on the significance of those events, our front page — we call it our dress page — may be torn up and redone, often on the fly, which also means inside pages must be redrawn as well. It's often an amazing sight to see and on nights when big events are happening, like Super Bowl Sunday, it's marvelous to behold. He Shoots! He Scores! But Who Knows? Q. Why doesn't the Times have beat reporters for the Islanders and the Devils that cover every regular-season game, as it does for other local teams?  Advertisement  — H. Schnall A. Dear Mr. Schnall: I'll recast a respone I gave the last time I was in the "Talk to the Newsroom" forum: Your email is one of several from readers who would like to see more coverage of a particular team or sport. One of our challenges is deciding how best to allocate our resources, both in terms of the number of reporters we have and in the space available in the sports section. Decisions on what we are going to cover are constantly under discussion and change by the hour, depending on news. Remember also that we are an international news organization, responsible for covering not only the local teams but news of significance around the world. In other words, we have to make some tough choices. Our approach is to cover the teams that have the biggest following. But while the lockout may have helped solve the N.H.L.'s financial problems, it had the unintended result of showing that hockey's following is significantly behind that of football, baseball and basketball. That puts hockey in the category of sports where we look for opportunities to do the big stories that we think will be of interest — or use — to the most readers. In recent weeks, we've done articles on Alex Ovechkin, Jaromir Jagr, andthe Phoenix Coyotes, as well as our weekly Slap Shot notebook and the Slap Shot blog. Strategy vs. Personalities Q. Sports reporting has become more focused on personalities than an analysis of the game. While the Internet is always available for supplementary coverage, what would be your thoughts of increasing overage of coaching strategies/tactics?  — Atul Chugh A. Dear Atul Chugh: Our goal is to provide a mix of articles about personalities, issues, game stories and analysis. We pick our spots for all of those kinds of articles because we want to provide our readers a range of coverage. As I hope you saw in our coverage of the Super Bowl, we provide analysis when a large number of people are interested in a game. If you follow the work of reporters like Judy Battista, John Branch, Howard Beck, Tyler Kepner and Ben Shpigel, you'll almost always see that they regularly take an analytical look at the events they are covering. Questionable Call in Super Bowl? Q. Please help me with a rules clarification from the Super Bowl. How could the coach of the Patriots throw a challenge flag on a play that did not have a penalty call, resulting in a 12-player on the field penalty assessment? Crux: the refs did not call a foul/penalty, so there was in essence, nothing to challenge. It appears that the coach took it upon himself to challenge a "non-call" — and where does that get us?    — Clark Hays, Portland, Ore. A. Dear Mr. Hays: The N.F.L. rules allow for challenges for detectable infractions, including the number of players on the field. ANSWER Advertisement What About the N.F.L.? Q. I have read, and heard, mounting criticism of both the National Football League and the union that represents its players, both active and retired, for how health care is inadequately addressed and too poorly funded by the league and union, especially for retirees. There has been a tremendous amount of coverage generated by baseball's steroid scandal, but, in my opinion, far less efforts and resources dedicated to a problem that continues to go unaddressed by both the league and the players union. Why?    — Jon Marino A. Dear Mr. Marino: It's true that the N.F.L. disability issue hasn't received as much attention as steroids, but we have covered it quite extensively as the articles linked here indicate. As those same articles indicate, the league and the players union have addressed the disability issue in several ways, although the retired players continue to lobby for further redress. There are several reasons that the steroids issue receives more attention, among them that using them is cheating, the belief that many professional sports still don't have adequate testing programs, the concern that young athletes will believe that steroids are necessary to succeed in sports. N.F.L. and Players Union Agree to Alter Disability Plan Congress Scolds N.F.L. and Union Chiefs Lineman Tries to Spark Generosity Congress Considers Action to Help Former N.F.L. Players Rehab Plan Announced For N.F.L.'s Ex-Players Study of Ex-N.F.L. Players Ties Concussion to Depression Risk Ex-Cowboy Johnston Backs Ailing Retirees Owners Add $10 Million For Ailing Ex-Players  Where Is Senator Mitchell? Q. My question: Roger Clemens and his lawyers are basically saying that Brian McNamee lied because he was pressured to do so by the investigators. At what point does Senator George Mitchell get his back up over the fact that these guys are calling his report corrupt? He's been awfuly quiet about this so far.    — Brad Smith A. Dear Mr. Smith: Your question goes to the heart of why the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held its hearing on Wednesday. The testimony by and about Roger Clemens and Brian McNamee is expected to help resolve the question of who is telling the truth on the matter. And even if it doesn't, all indications are that Justice Department will follow up with its own investigation. Investigative Reporting in Sports Q. First off, thanks for the great Sports section. I noticed that sometimes it seems that the Sports section does a kind of investigative reporting. I think you actually had a lot to do with ending the Jets "Gate" fiasco at  Giants Stadium due to your exposure of it, and I think you weighed in heavily on Michael Vick. How do you find and how do you approach these more controversial stories?  Advertisement  — Bernie Langs, New Providence, N.J. A. Mr. Langs: Thank you for the compliments. It's gratifying to see that you've noticed some of the work we're proudest of and nice to see some recognition for our smart, hard working reporters and editors. They're the people who come up with the best ideas and stories, the best of which generally involve thinking outside the norm in sports. I have to credit one of the paper's assistant managing editors, Glenn Kramon, for coming up with the best definition of how to recognize a story that deserves special attention: If the subject matter makes you mad, there's a good chance it will make a lot of our readers mad, too. That certainly fits the description for the stories you mention, as well as others, including Alan Schwarz's fine series on the long-term affects of concussions, which you can see at this Times Topics page. In retrospect, I wish I had had more foresight about the Vick story. Like many people, I believed his initial claim that although he owned the house, he didn't know what was going on there. The lesson on that story is that even if you're late to get on it, you can shed light on the subject, as Juliet Macur did last week with her sensitive story on the fate of the dogs that were confiscated from Vick and as Katie Thomas did Wednesday with her story on how cockfighting is viewed in an altogether different light in the Dominican Republic. The Gate D story you mentioned is a great example of a reporter looking beyond the "expected" boundaries. None of us were aware of the harassment that had become a halftime tradition at Jets games until our reporter, Dave Picker, was stretching his legs after the second quarter and heard a roar from the concourse. He asked a security guard what was going on and the guard explained. Dave took it from there, even ending up in the holding cell under the stadium when some guards took offense to his inquiries. As you point out, the uproar that resulted from his article resulted in some substantial changes in the way the stadium authority handled the halftime activities. All of those stories called attention to issues that stirred the passions of readers in exactly the way Glenn Kramon describes. Replacing Selena Roberts Q. Now that you've lost the particular voice and reportage that was provided by Selena Roberts, does the sports section have any plans to replace her with another individual?   — Charles Rosenberger A. Dear Mr. Rosenberger: Selena's voice is unique and finding a suitable replacement won't be easy, but we will. Advertisement The Duke Lacrosse Case Q. When the Duke Lacrosse "rape" case first erupted, the New York Times sports section was one of the leading cheerleaders for the conviction and slandering of the Duke team as a whole and the three charged players.  When the charges imploded, the players exonerated, and Michael Nifong disbarred,  the sports section and "pundits" remained steadfastly silent.  Since you are the chief editor, one must assume that you led and approved of all the reporting (and non-reporting) and the commentary (however incorrect and one-sided). Question:  As the editor of the sports section how do you justify your behavior in toto?   — Rex Avery A. Dear Mr. Avery: First, let me clarify that our reporters remained involved in the coverage of the Duke case throughout. The placement of the articles moved into the national section of the paper once it became a court case, as is generally the case with such stories, including the rape cases against Kobe Bryant and Mike Tyson. We've written stories about the team since it was reinstated and covered its run to the title game last season. As far as our coverage of the case itself, if the essence of your question is whether I feel good about it, the answer is that I very much regret my failure to recognize that we were dealing with a rogue prosecutor and that the university had compounded his bravado by overreacting to the initial reports about the case. I don't recall another instance of a university canceling the season of a team that was a contender for a national championship. Nor do I recall a similar example of a prosecutor launching such an aggressively wrongheaded investigation. But the bottom line is that I'd do some things differently, and that knowledge gained by hindsight has informed our approach to other stories since then. Clemens on Capitol Hill Q. what procedure is it that allows Roger Clemens to have private meetings with 25 politicians who are on a committee that is investigating him?  It's very bizarre.  Is the procedure available to anyone, like me, for instance?  What if I had some things I wanted to discuss with our Washington legislators; would I be able to do so, privately, in advance of an investigation of myself, with no taping or otherwise official record of any kind?   — Harold Winshel, Abdington, Pa. A. Dear Mr. Winshel: Your question is one that has been asked by a lot of people, and addressed in news articles by Duff Wilson and a column by Murray Chass. It's often puzzling to see how politicians behave when athletes appear before them, and it's not the first time that we've seen this kind of idolatry in Washington. A similar kind of behavior was evident during the steroids hearings in 2005. As Duff reported on Wednesday, there are some boundaries and some in Congress may have crossed them in accepting autographs from Clemens. Advertisement Quiet, Please! Q. Please explain why the tennis associations have not yet after all the years ofcomplaints, put a stop to the screaming and screeching during matches. Surelythey can't all be deaf!    — Jaybee A. Dear Jaybee: I'm afraid that's a question for the tennis associations, not me. Have you considered ear plugs? Or perhaps an iPod? Notre Dame Home Basketball Games Q. How obscene is it that a college basketball team like Notre Dame, with a record of 18-4, has played 17 games at home, and 5 on the road?  They have an overwhelming advantage there, while other teams have played fewer games at home than on the road and their records show it.  Obscene might be a bit strong.  Another question:  If the catcher is allowed to block home plate against an oncoming runner, the catcher, let's say being 220 pounds, wrapped in leather and fiberglass shielding, the runner,  a flyweight 165 pounds, why can't a second baseman guard second against an advancing runner the same way?  Huh?  Also, how many doubleheaders are split, and how many swept-percentage wise.  I'll be sitting by my computer waiting like a lovesick schoolgirl.    — Charles F. Singewald A. Dear Mr. Singewald,You're being pretty liberal with that invitation to ask "questions." In truth, I don't know the answer to your second and third questions, but the answer to the first one is simple and traditional for big-time basketball programs — and football programs, too, for that matter. Schools like Notre Dame can invite lesser programs to come get beat up on their court in exchange for a nice payday. That helps Notre Dame pad its victory total before play begins in the Big East Conference and by going .500 there, it can still make it into the N.C.A.A. tournament. Getting an Edge Q. Tom, I would like to play for either the Yankees or Mets. Do you think reading The New York Times would give me an advantage?   — John Brady A. How could it hurt? The Greatest Upset in Super Bowl History? Q. One last statement on the "Greatest Upset in Superbowl History."  It wasn't.  What is so surprising about a team that lost by 3 points when it had nothing on the line but pride beating its opponent when they met again in the Super Bowl?  Didn't surprise me one bit.  The Pats could have just as easily had three losses going into the Super Bowl (Giants, Ravens, Eagles).  The biggest upset was Joe Namath's Jets beating the Baltimore Colts.  That was one league upsetting the other league.  Agree?   Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters.  — The Stever (A Redskins Fan) A. You didn't see us calling it the "greatest upset." It was a great upset. But in terms of both point spread and surprise, the Jets' victory against the Colts was bigger. By the way, I picked the Giants by 2 on our Predictify playoff site. Helped me finish 159th in the standings. Coverage of Formula 1 Racing Q. Why don't you cover Formula 1 championships with a lot of detail?   — Manny Mejia, Sarasota, Fla. A. See above in regard to different interests and limited resources. Again, we pick our spots. Brad Spurgeon, our colleague at The International Herald Tribune, does a fine job covering the sport throughout the year and we look for moments to highlight it. We wrote a fair amount about Lewis Hamilton and we also covered the McLaren cheating scandal. For a better sense of our auto racing coverage check out the Times Topics page, quaintly named Automobile Racing. Advertisement Why So Critical of Rodriguez? Q. Why is it that there appears to be a bias on the part of several of your sports columnists against Alex Rodriguez?  He has won the M.V.P. award in two years as a Yankee and has performed (other than playoffs) extremely well.   — Martin Shapiro A. Dear Mr. Shapiro: Alex Rodriguez has a complicated relationship with the media, fans and even some teammates. Yes, he has taken some shots — he's nicely reimbursed for his trouble, of course — but he has also been defended by columnists like George Vecsey and Harvey Araton. Winter Sports Schedules Q. How do I find the schedules for ice skating, especially figure skating?  Ggymnastics?  Cross-country skiing?  Downhill skiing?  The pipe, and all other winter sports that  I'm missing right now? Reading the results of an event in The Times the day after the event drives me crazy!!!!  I want to be able to find the schedule of events before the event has happened so I can watch it on TV! Would really, really appreciate your help in this!   — Louise M. Young A. Dear Ms. Young: We used to publish an extensive list of sports on television, but the expansion of cable programming made it impossibly unwieldy. The good news is that search engines are a wonderful thing. Most of the information you're interested in is available on Web sites that are devoted to individual sports. To get you started, here's a link to the television schedule for U.S. Figureskating events: www.usfigureskating.org/Event_TV_Schedule.asp. The Future of Sportswriting Q. Some commentary on contemporary sports journalism has leveled the critique that we focus too much on statistics, reprehensible behavior and record-keeping. There is, of course, a use for the coverage of such subjects (they are a reality, after all), but, I'm wondering: if you share a concern for the future of sportswriting, what kind of stories would you like to see more of?   — Michael Rowe, Minneapolis A. Dear Mr. Rowe: As near as I can tell, the commentary you're referring to reflects a longing for the days before sports lost its innocence. Like it or not, sports is a big business these days. With that comes money, power, celebrity and, often enough, corruption. Consider the news from the past few months: An N.B.A. referee is arrested for gambling, the Tour de France is torn asunder by drug use, the Mitchell report opens a window on steroids use in baseball, the Patriots are caught spying on their opponents, etc. etc. The N.F.L. is probably the most illuminating example of why things have changed. Many of the top coaches and players are inaccessible, either literally — hiding in the training room when the media is around — or figuratively — speaking in Belichickese when they do talk to reporters. The Patriots' spying investigation is an example of how the league works. The N.F.L. conducted an investigation that it refused to describe in any meaningful way, destroyed whatever evidence it had without explanation, heavily penalized the Patriots and then essentially said: "Trust us. We took care of it." For months, league officials refused to discuss it further, until Senator Arlen Specter raised a ruckus just before the Super Bowl. All of that only raised more questions, of course, but the N.F.L. is rich and powerful enough that its leaders don't feel the need to answer to anyone who can't threaten to take away their antitrust exemption. I don't want to sound cynical or cold-hearted, but as Red Smith used to say, it's not our job to "god up" athletes and I'm sure he'd agree that it's not our job to "god up" sports in general. The athletes and the games they play provide a tremendous amount of entertainment value, but we've got to cover them with our eyes wide open, in the same way we would approach any other aspect of journalism. College Athletes and Class Time Q. For many years, college presidents have come out against a college football playoff because of the lost class time and the length of the season.  In view of this perception, has anyone ever done an analysis of how much class time a college football player misses as against a college basketball player for the length of their seasons?  In view of the fact that college basketball teams play many of their games during the week and travel all across the country, I would assume that they miss far more classes than their football students.    — Mitchell H. Pally, Melville, N.Y. A. Dear Mr. Pally: Interesting observation, but as Pete Thamel wrote a little more than a year ago, athletes in Division I sports devote such an enormous amount of time to their sports that the latest "arms race" involves the expansion of tutoring services to help them stay eligible. The bigger issue about a college football playoff game is that the bowl system is so entrenched and profitable that many in the sport are wedded to it. That's why the concept of the plus-one playoff gained so much attention; it would add a game to the system rather than taking one away. 'World Champions' in What World? Q. Greetings from Nara, Japan. I was wondering why The New York Times, all other media outlets and athletes continue to call U.S national champions "world" champions. After the Super Bowl, Michael Strahan talks about winning the "world" championship. It is said routinely about champions from the World Series and the N.B.A.. The United States barely advanced out of the first round of the World Baseball Classic almost two years ago. The W.B.C. was won by Japan, with two major leaguers, defeating Cuba, with no major leaguers. The World Basketball Championship was won by Argentina, while the United States finished third, which was its place in the last Olympics, which followed a sixth in the previous world championship. In both sports, the United States had the opportunity to send its best players. I've traveled widely and have never heard anybody other than North Americans talk about the N.F.L. or Super Bowl. It is a sport with 100 percent American teams playing in 100 percent American cities and played by close to 100 percent American players. How does that qualify as a "world" championship? The president and chief executive of the Boston Red Sox recently visited Japan and said that the world champion Red Sox, etc., etc., rather insulting since he was standing with people who are truly the world champions — they won it on the field. I guess they should be talking about their world champion Chunichi Dragons. This issue doesn't seem to concern or bother Americans, but the people I know from outside the United States find it laughable at the self importance/parochialism. My Aussie friends would never dream of calling the Aussie rules champs the  champions of the world; Canadian Football League champions are awarded the Grey Cup and never talk about being world champs and certainly the Premier League soccer winners are just that — champions of English soccer.   — Bruce Picken, Nara, Japan A. Dear Mr. Picken: First, congratulations! You're the leader in the clubhouse as the most distant e-mailer. And, yes, you're right, Americans do tend to get provincial about their status in the sports world. But you're also right that the recent performance of the U.S. basketball team helped quiet some of that talk, as did the U.S. baseball team's failure to even make the semifinals in the World Baseball Classic. Our policy is not to refer to anyone as a world champion unless they truly are. That doesn't mean we won't use a quote in which someone says they're the "world champions of pro football" or something like that, if the rest of the quote seems meaningful enough. But you won't see us referring to the Giants that way. The Greatest of the Greats Q. Hello there! Why does it seem that the media wants to make (just about) every player and team the best that ever was? For the past 15 or so years every other guy was the "next" Michael Jordan. Why is Jordan the best ever? What about all the other great players that deserve the same billing? Is it because they're not media darlings? What happened to Bill Russell, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Oscar Robertson, Magic Johnson, Larry Bird, just to name a few, is it championships? How come everybody makes Brett Favre the best or one of the best when he's not even the best Packer ever? How come nobody talks anymore of the players of yesteryear? How about Bart Starr? Five championships. , Otto Graham? Doesn't Jim Brown have five or six M.V.P.'s? And so does Johnny Unitas. Why are all the conversations about Favre's three? I guess I just wouldn't put Jordan at the top, certainly top 10, Favre ... maybe top 10 quarterbacks.   — Alejandro Prego A. You mean like calling the Super Bowl winner "the world champion"? And speaking of that, don't you think that catch David Tyree made was the best in Super Bowl history? And that Eli Manning put together the most remarkable game-winning drive you've ever seen? Yes, we Americans have developed a fondness for christening things as the greatest this and the best that. In the media, that's partly driven by the notion that if you call enough athletes or teams "the best ever," sooner of later one of them will be and you can claim you were the first to notice. (On the bet that the rest of us will forget all the times you were wrong.) We try to resist and for the most part I think we do, but ... we ... are ... human. Room for Comments From Readers? Q. The Times has done a better job in recent years of reaching out to readers and providing multiple forums for their voices to be heard. The newspaper's Sunday Sports section prints brief letters on topics of the day, but does not offer space for a longer letter. Would you consider running one 250- to 500-word piece each Sunday from a reader who wishes to delve a little deeper into an issue and can provide thoughtful analysis or a fresh point of view?   — James G. Kempton, Nanuet, N.Y. A. We receive many over-the-transom offerings from readers and occasionally publish them. The Web site also allows for longer comments from readers. There's Cold and Then There's Cold Q. There was much attention during the Giants-Packers game to the below-zero temperature and comparison to the famous 14 below zero Packers-Cowboys Ice Bowl, but there was a significant difference that should have been observed by reporters.  Lambeau Field is now superbly heated from below by piping that circulates fluid that is over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The field did not freeze during the contest (which helped to make for such skillful football).  But no one reporting observed that the heated field had a direct ameliorating impact upon the air temperatures felt by the players at field level.  While those sleeveless linemen were indeed tough as nails, they were being warmed by constant contact with a field surface radiating heat probably at the level of 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Did you have a reporter at field level and did he or she in fact notice this impact?   — Eric M. Rosenberg A. Do I detect a product endorsement here? We did not have a reporter at field level, but our photographers noticed the difference. That's probably why players didn't get frostbite as players in the famous Ice Bowl game did. Rutgers and the Time-Space Continuum Q. Can anything be done to give Rutgers women their victory over Tennessee? For 0.2 seconds to take 1.3 seconds is denying Einstein.   — Bill Storrer A. It doesn't look like it, but take heart: Perhaps it will inspire the Scarlet Knights the next time they play the Vols — and if they meet again it will mean more. Look how the Giants handled their rematch. Illegal Substances of Yesteryear Q. Could we see an article on Babe Ruth, the asterisk, and the consumption of illegal performance enhancing substances? Alcohol during prohibition. Not this idiotic steroid stuff.   — John Dodds A. I know it can seem tiresome and I think most of us would be glad if we didn't need to write any further about steroids and performance-enhancing drugs. Look, if it wasn't against the law or against the rules, if it was considered good for you, we'd no doubt write a lot less about it. But then you read stuff like George Vecsey's column a few days ago about Frank and Brenda Marrero, whose son Efrain ended up dead after using steroids in an effort to emulate his sports heroes. You think about how The Times and other publications write about the workout regimens of top athletes and you realize that we do so because people want to believe they can look like those athletes if they copy the workouts. And if we think they're that eager to copy those workouts — especially if they're young and impressionable — what do you think the chances are that some of them will follow the example of the athlete who took an occasional injection to help build that zero-percent body-fat body with bulging biceps and six-pack abs? Ask Frank or Brenda Marrero. A Question of Motives Q. With regard to the Clemens-McNamee hearing and investigation, why is no one examining the issue of motive? As I understand it, McNamee has nothing to personally gain from naming Clemens and adding him to his list — i.e., he's not being paid or being given immunity on a "per head" basis; on the other hand, Clemens is facing the loss of his reputation, entry into the Hall of Fame, an asterisk by his records, possible return of one or more Cy Youngs, etc. So it seems that Clemens is the only one who has something to gain by lying.   — Jim Polan A. Dear Mr. Polan: Your point is one we've made many times and it's buttressed by the fact that both Andy Pettitte and Chuck Knoblauch acknowledged that McNamee told the truth about them. Given that, the next point about motive becomes why would McNamee tell the truth about Pettitte and Knoblauch but lie about Clemens? Clemens and his camp contend that McNamee has lied in the past, including in an article in The New York Times when he said it was unfair to hard-working ball players that people were suggesting that they were using steroids. They say he lied on those occasions and is lying now. If you were inclined to believe McNamee before the Congressional hearing, you're probably inclined to believe him still. If you were inclined to believe Clemens, you're probably sticking with his story. We may only get to the truth if there is a perjury investigation, and even then there are no assurances that we'll be sure. To Vote or Not to Vote? Q.  Why aren't baseball writers at The Times allowed to vote in the Baseball Writers  Hall of Fame selection process and other awards?  Is the New York vote thus forfeited or does The Times (or the BBWA) re-allocate those votes to a New Yorker?  Would Derek Jeter have won the M.V.P. in 2006 had The Times's writers been allowed to vote? I've been a Yankee fan since 1956 and I get down to Seattle every time they play there.  The New York Times is my No. 1 source of New York Yankee information and features. Play ball!    — John M. Sweeney, Anchorage, Alaska Q. Hello. Thanks for taking questions. Could you address The Times's insistence that its sportswriters not vote in Hall of Fame balloting? I'm particularly interested in voting for baseball, but I'm sure your paper's policy applies to all sports. I think it cheats the sportswriter, who probably wonders why The Times doubts his integrity. But also the whole idea is that players are elected by sportswriters, so how could there not be an input from the great New York Times? Don't you, as editor, feel your own paper and writers get short shrift here? Do you believe the issue can or should be revisited?   — Ron Grunberg A. To the contrary, I don't think reporters have any business voting on the Hall of Fame or any awards or polls, in sports, theater or any other subject. We're in the business of covering the news, not making it. There are plenty of other people who can vote. If we trust the public to elect our politicians, I can't fathom why we can't trust people to vote on these other awards — except, of course, for the vested interest of those who now control the voting. Heck, the public picked Carrie Underwood, why not let the people decide if Mark McGwire belongs in the Hall of Fame? Text 1-1-1-1? Overlooked for Hall of Fame? Q. What is your take on why Tom Flores is not in the N.F.L. Hall of Fame? He is the first Hispanic coach to win a Super Bowl — and he won two. Madden won one and got in. Flores still owns the Raider passing record of most TDs in a game. He does a great deal of community work. And last I heard he was in the Raider radio network —don't know if it's still true. He has written the best-selling book for coaches — a real classic. And he was the first man to have four Super Bowl rings — one as a player, one as an assistant coach and two as head coach. Why has he been overlooked?   — Bob O'Connor A. Every Hall of Fame has its share of people who are overlooked for reasons that are inexplicable. A few questions ago I was joking (sort of) about letting the public text in votes for the Hall of Fame or other awards — horrors! But your question shows that the current system isn't exactly perfect. Q. As a New Yorker now living in Denver (no New Yorker is ever a “former” New Yorker), I’m always amused and bemused by the wail and cry around N.F.L. Hall of Fame election time about why more Denver Broncos aren’t in the Hall of Fame. Can you explain the selection process and, as an aside, can you explain why Joe Klecko not only isn’t in the hall but isn’t even mentioned as a finalist?    — Jimmy Hayde, Denver A. Yet another question about unfairness in the Hall of Fame selection process. Could this be the start of a grassroots movement? I can't tell you why Klecko hasn't been a serious candidate for selection, but the Pro Football Hall of Fame Web site has a thorough explanation of how that process works. How Will Fans React to Pettitte? Q. How will we ever dissect the Clemens saga and how do you think Yankeefans will react to Pettitte in April?   — Ray, Wallington, N.J. A. Dear Ray: As noted earlier, it will probably take a perjury investigation to figure out who was telling the truth in the Clemens saga and even then we may not get a conclusive answer. My guess is that Pettitte will be embraced by Yankees fans. His admission in the wake of the Mitchell report — even if it turned out to be incomplete — won a lot of good will from the people I've talked to. Why No N.H.L. Box Scores? Q. Re:  Hockey coverage. I  am certain  your answer to "why no beat coverage for the Islanders and the Devils" will apply to the non-listing of hockey box scores for  the rest of the N.H.L., but why not throw us a bone  and at least give box scores for the  rest of the league?   — Jamie Fenwick A. Dear Jamie: We'd love to be able to provide all of the statistical data from every sports event, and we do — on the Web site. As you undoubtedly know, the paper got smaller a few months ago and when that happened our news hole shrunk by about 10 percent, or roughly half a page. When we learned that was coming, we started taking a hard look at what made our section the most distinctive and what we could afford to cut back on. Clearly, the original content produced by our columnists and reporters is what makes our section distinctive. Just as clearly, with so much statistical information now so readily available on the Internet, agate was no longer as valuable as it once was. A full list of hockey box scores is equivalent to one news article. We're confident we're serving the greater good of most readers by choosing the news article over agate. Partisan Nature of Congressional Hearing Q. It appeared that at Wednesday's hearing representatives doing the questioning were split along party lines. Democrats went after Clemens. Republicans tried to take apart McNamee. Were you surprised by that?  A. The partisanship was a surprise. It was something Alan Schwarz addressed in his live blogging of the hearing and that Duff Wilson further explored in a story that appeared on the Web on Thursday evening and in the paper on Friday. As Wilson's story says, the partisanship arose mostly because many Republicans didn't want to be seen as supporting what they regard as the prosecutorial approach of the Democratic committee chairman, Henry A. Waxman, and because Clemens is a Republican and is friendly with the president. Animal Issues in Sports Q. The Times had an excellent story recently on the rehababilitation of Michael Vick's dogs — although not in the Sports section. Do you have a view on animal issues in sports? Do you make an effort to maintain reporters' awareness of such things as problems with rodeos and bullriding, and in horse racing, in which there have been a number of recent tragic stories, but a lack of looking on regular basis at horse treatment. The Westminster Dog Show has many issues about the actual breeding of dogs to conform to unnatural standards, and to overpopulation of dogs.   — Tippi W., Manhattan A. Hi Tippi: Thanks for the kind words about Juliet Macur's story about Michael Vick's dogs. Although the story ran in the A section of the paper, it was produced by the sports department. (Bill Keller, our executive editor, instituted a new policy for the sake of readers that, as much as possible, if a story runs on the front page of the paper, the continuation of that article should remain in the same section. It's easier on commuters and probably has reduced the number of breakfast-table arguments about who has which section of the paper.) As far as the rest of your question, we're all responsible for staying aware of issues of all sorts. Ideas flow from everywhere. Juliet Macur came up with the idea of doing the story on Vick's dogs. One of our editors, Jay Schreiber, came up with the smart idea of doing a story about the culture of cockfighting in the Dominican Republic after it came out that Pedro Martinez of the Mets had been a guest at a fight, and Katie Thomas delivered an insightful look at the issue. Bill Rhoden and Joe Drape wrote extensively about the problems in horse racing after Barbaro was injured in 2006 and we'll continue to look at that issue and others like it. Looking Back at Sports Coverage Q. I’d love to see The Times make room , either online or off, to reprint some of its sports stories from the 20th century to coincide with major traditional events like the Olympics, U.S. Open, World Series and other championships.  It would educate those not versed in sports history and shine light on how things have changed or remained the same in sports. Have you ever thought about that? My great uncle was Allison Danzig and I’m still inspired by his writing — so I have an admitted bias!   — Rich Klein, New York A. This is precisely the ultimate goal of our Times Topics pages. They represent an astonishing wealth of information and continue to expand by the day. You also can find articles by Allison Danzig and others by searching our archives on the Web site. That's also an incredible resource. Online News, Recruiting Reporters and Nascar Q. It seems to me that a number of the questions you've already fielded indicate that your readership is having a tough time adapting to the evolving roles of the dead-tree edition and online edition. I love both, and for nearly two decades, I was a daily and Sunday reader and subscriber. Before the Internet, it always frustrated me to see how early your National edition closed, with dozens of instances where a playoff or World Series game or Super Bowl ended too late for coverage. Mind you, I didn't need The Times to tell me the score, as I had ESPN to thank for that and more, but what I needed was the incomparable voices of your reporters and columnists. I sorely missed Dave Anderson's unique perspective. I dropped him a note or three to that effect and on more than one occasion he very generously sent me photocopies of his column. I don't need The Times to tell me what Roger Clemens and Brian McNamee said on Tuesday. I need The Times to put it into context; to parse the partisan lines, and point out the conflict when members seek the autograph of a witness. Speech over, now the question: Do you resent how television has used The Times as the equivalent of its Triple-A, and how they've raided your staff? Selena Roberts is the most recent example. Or do you consider it some sort of poetic justice, because you've raided smaller newspapers and competitors to fill your staff? Finally, a brief plea for more reporting — not agate results —— about Nascar. Your Viv Bernstein is great.  — Kenn Fong A. Dear Mr. Fong: Great speech! Looks like someone leaked my script to you. What Are the Odds on Publishing Point Spreads? Q. Is it your idea or is it The Times's policy not to print point spreads and odds on sporting events? In addition to being a disservice to your readers, the failure to publish this public information makes a mockery of the notion that The Times is "the paper of record." Future researchers and historians relying on The Times for insight into the sports world of our day will be presented with a grossly misleading view of that world — namely, they will see no indication of the profound extent of sports gambling in our society.   — Mike Lindquist, New York A. Dear Mr. Lindquist: The practice of not publishing gambling odds has been the paper's policy for years and years. It's something that is discussed periodically. It was adopted because gambling on sports is illegal everywhere but in Las Vegas and that by publishing odds we would be promoting a largely illegal activity. In the age of the Internet, that point seems a lot more quaint than it once did, which is why the subject is periodically revisited. Where Is Ray Handley? Q. Whatever happened to the former Giants coach Ray Handley.  I know that he was not the most popular guy among Giants fans, but he seems to have completely disappeared.  Is he still involved in sports?  — Steve G. A. He has simply chosen to live a private life, apparently. Love That Nascar Q. As a Nascar fan, I see there is less bylined Nascar coverage than in the past. Why is that? Are there any plans to change that in 2008?   — Jason Levy A. I don't believe there has been a major shift in our Nascar coverage. Our philosophy in general is that we focus our reporting resources on the most important stories of the moment and, just by the nature of that, it means our coverage of everything ebbs and flows over time. The Isiah Thomas Question Q. Why does Isiah Thomas still have a job?  A. Because James Dolan says he can. Drug Testing in High Schools and Colleges? Q. Are high school and college athletes subject to any drug testing? It's never mentioned in any articles I've read about my beloved Tar Heels (Marion Jones' banner in the women's basketball court and her records are still intact at U.N.C.).   — Ivis Bohlen A. High school and college athletes are rarely subject to drug testing unless they compete on an international level in a sport that is under the jurisdiction of the World Anti-Doping Association. Some states conduct random tests of high school athletes and the N.C.A.A. also does some random testing, but nothing on the scale of WADA or the major professional sports. Money and the Mitchell Report Q.  Can you please tell me where the funds came from to pay for the Mitchell report — re the investigation of drug use in baseball? What was the total cost? And, are there any continuing costs being incurred?  — Lee Myers, Lakeland, Fla. A. Major League Baseball paid for the Mitchell report. It reportedly cost $20 million. I am not aware of any continuing costs related to the Mitchell investigators. The Congressional investigation and any federal investigation would be financed by the government. Rutgers and the Clock Q. It is a fact that the clock stopped with 0.2 seconds left on it.  Why doesn't Ray Glier say this?  He merely quotes Vivian Stringer, which makes it sound like it is just a partisan allegation.  The video clearly shows the clock stopped, before the foul. Not a good day at the office for Glier.   — Jon Robinson, New Brunswick, N.J. A. Dear Mr. Robinson: I just re-read our story on the game and don't see how quoting Vivian Stringer in this way makes it seem any less true that the clock stopped. Also, we followed up the next day with a story that explained why the clock was incorrectly stopped. Determining Content of Paper and Web Q. Your comments in the segment you’ve called “The Daily Miracle” were very interesting.  However, it sounds as though the web version of The New York Times has more stories than the newspaper because of space limitations.  Is that the case? If so, how do you and your staff decide what and how much goes into the Web version and what goes into the print version?  If the stories are much the same, but the Web version has more coverage, how do you decide what and how much is to appear there?   — Judith Feinleib, Belmont, Mass. A. Dear Ms. Feinleib: The Web site contains vastly more than the paper. There are no limits to how much can go on the Web. There are strict limits to how much can go into the paper. (In large part, the size of the newspaper is determined by the amount of advertising contained in that paper.) Those limits have existed throughout the history of newspapers and, as a result, we've always had to make judgments on what to put into the paper and what to leave out. At The Times, we must make additional judgments because we have both a metropolitan edition of the paper, which is geared toward local readers, and a national edition. Those editions are never identical. We choose story lineups for each that we think will be of most interest to the readers of those particular editions. For example, if you buy The New York Times in Phoenix on a Monday of N.F.L. season, the main story in our section may be about the most important game in the league that day. If you buy the paper in the New York area, the main story will be about the Giants or Jets. The Web contains all of that and more. We have several newspaper publishing deadlines each day and often print a story in the first edition that drops out after a game result becomes available. If you buy the paper, you'll get one story or the other. If you look on the Web, you'll find both. But we've added more value to our Web site with blogs devoted to particular sports, audio, video and photographic slide shows and many other special elements. Coordinating it all is one of our biggest challenges, but we believe readers will find real value in both the print paper and the Web. New-Fangled Internet Ways Q. Do you expect The New York Times to adopt some of the methods used by Internet-only sports commentators?  Will it hire statistically savvy new thinkers, or maybe some gonzo younger writers/ columnists? The Internet-only sources generally rely on statistics for analysis or on brash tabloid style.  They analyze players, teams and games based on performance and projected performance or they just write in an interesting, titillating and innovative style.  It matters little what Player A feels, or what his manager says, etc. What do the numbers say? The strength of print media (including their Internet arms) is access —  presence at the game, press events, in the locker room and in executive suites generate quotes and insider information.  But a lot of that seems clichéd at this point, the message modulated and stripped of variety.  Worse, the access is often predicated on soft treatment.   A.We're always open to new ideas, but The New York Times became what it is by holding to high standards of journalism. It's my view that The Times will continue to distinguish itself by playing to our strengths: smart, hard-nosed reporting, especially on issues, as we've shown in our coverage of the Mitchell report and on concussions, to name just two examples. And Then There's College Hockey Q. As a college hockey fan (alumnus of Boston University), I am disappointed that The Times no longer has a weekly college hockey column and does not even print the standings of the various N.C.A.A. hockey leagues.  Sure, I can — and do — obtain information about college hockey from various Web sites. Still, it was always much more gratifying reading about college hockey in The Times. I like the gravitas that The Times provides. What went into the thought process that resulted in The Times discontinuing the weekly coverage?   — Lenny Busch A. Dear Mr. Busch: If you've been reading this, you've seen by now that a lot of people would like us to cover a lot of things. Again, it's a question of resources. While I fully understand that our coverage of these sports validates the interests of people who follow them, our mission has changed significantly from the days when we were labeled the "paper of record." As you note, the information you're interested in is on the Web every day. Given that, what are we adding to your knowledge by running that same information once a week? The great thing for folks like yourself is that you can get the in-depth information you crave from a specialized site. Win One for the Stadium? Q. What do you think about a grass-roots movement to persuade the Giants to play one last game in Yankee Stadium before the demolition? I know that Giants Stadium holds 80,000, as opposed to 56,000 or so at Yankee Stadium. But they could charge a few bucks more, and fill up the "batter's eye" area. It would be the hottest ticket in town...the last event ever at Yankee Stadium. Wow. (And, what about one last game at Shea for the Jets?)    — John J. Grady, Toledo, Ohio A. I think the Giants would have some pretty angry season ticket holders! I know I wouldn't be too happy if I was told that I was losing out on a ticket for the sake of nostalgia. Getting the Late Scores Q. I live approximately 18 miles from your office. Still, the edition of The Times that arrives at my door each morning never — NEVER — includes the results of games or events that end as late as 11 p.m. The latest example is Tuesday's Westminster best in show. Why?  — Howard Wolff, West Orange, N.J. A. The biggest challenge in the newspaper business is the delivery system. In order to get our papers printed and then driven to stores and doorsteps around the region, it's necessary to send the paper to the presses starting at 10:30 each night. We print a second edition at 11:30 and a third at 12:30, so the news in your paper depends on when it was printed. You're obviously getting either the first or second edition. It only takes a few minutes to get those stories up on our Web site, so check there if it's not in your paper. The Effects of HGH on Adults Q. Dear Mr. Jolly:  With all the hubbub about Clemens et al. regarding human growth hormone, it is time to ask two questions: 1.  Is there any clinical evidence that HGH has a salutary effect in normal human adults? 2. If the answer is no, and I suspect it is, why has this not been a subject for the media?   — Steve Marburg A. Duff Wilson, who has covered the Clemens investigation for us, wrote an extensive piece about HGH and its popularity among the anti-aging crowd. The History of Sports Q. What are the some of the sports history topics that The Times might find to be groundbreaking and novel? Your Dominican cockfighting piece was a recent example. The "sport" of cockfighting goes back to "ancient" times. Regarding the cockfighting story, it was an excellent primary source document for students in a history and philosophy of sport class, which I currently teach. [Curiously, as any history proceeds, some of my students secretly wondered why Senator Mitchell had tagged my name in his report, but it must be major league baseball player DoLuca who was turned into a DeLoca typo via online chat.] With outstanding sport history scholars on all continents, what significant topics would The Times consider in its sports opinion columns? I'm sure you have your fair number of submissions from a few scholars who think they have some unique historical insight into sport, but our style may not fit the popular appeal of the New York Times marketing division.  Many thanks for providing good insight into the New York Times operation via "Talk to the Newsroom." The platform of education and journalism  provides a needed public service where many scholars enjoy participation as "public intellectuals."   — Paul J. deLoca, Greensboro, N.C. A. I appreciate the compliments. A story like the one Katie Thomas wrote about cockfighting in the Dominican Republic becomes relevant when there's a news hook. In this case, a video came out showing Pedro Martinez of the Mets at a cockfight with the former baseball star Juan Marichal. That prompted protests from animal rights groups and was also newsworthy because it came just after the Michael Vick case for dog abuse. As I noted earlier, our editor Jay Schreiber smartly pointed out the cultural differences — while cockfighting is abhorrent in the United States, it's part of life in the Dominican Republic — and we felt the time was right to explore that. Obligation for Leadership? Q. First, thanks for the thoughtful answers in this week's "Talk to the Newsroom."  I'll be sharing your answer about the inner workings of the sports department with my journalism classes in the future. Second, I wanted to follow up the question and answer regarding the Duke lacrosse team scandal. Yes, it was a rogue prosecutor and the young men were indeed innocent of the charge. But the scandal resulted in a good deal of reporting on the team's overall conduct — both in your paper and elsewhere (I particularly remember an H.G. Bissinger piece in Vanity Fair). These pieces left little doubt that the Duke lacrosse team was an organization out of control. Whether their eventual treatment at the hands of the legal system was fair or not, the players' actions put them in a position to be accused and arrested. My question from all of this is, does the media — and I count The New York Times as a leader in American media — have an obligation to help restore some sanity to American sports by reporting on the lack of balance in university sports programs? And is this something — however it's phrased — that is a priority in your department?   — Tom Clark A. Dear Mr. Clark: That's a tricky question to ask because it's not our role to judge our culture's sanity. That's up to society as a whole. Our part in that is reporting on what's happening in our culture as objectively as possible and to complement that reporting with commentary to help give our readers an informed opinion of those developments. But your e-mail does speak to a distinction we received last year from the Institute for International Sport. Conflict of Interest? Q. Please address the conflict of interest in writing about a company that your parent company owns a stake in, i.e., the Boston Red Sox. This seems particularly relevant when a number of your writers have seemed to be particularly hostile toward its chief competitor the New York Yankees. Shouldn't these articles begin with a disclosure of the conflict? Is there a way to explain to the readers exactly how much the Red Sox contribute to the New York Times bottom line? Do writers hold stock in The New York Times? Does the performance of the Red Sox have any effect on the viability of their pension plan, etc? I'm also interested in the very obvious difference in tone between Boston Globe and New York Times sports coverage. Are there companywide standards for "impartiality" in sports coverage or are they newspaper or editor dependent? Is it a matter of the differences between writing for a local vs. national audience? Or is it a matter of differences in the type of recruiting and talent development between the two papers. Do you care that your paper isn't the "hometown sports section" in the same way that The New York Post and The Daily News are? Finally, I was very disappointed by the cavalier and self-serving way Selena Roberts excused her inflamatory rush to judgment against the Duke lacrosse team. In previous cases The New York Times has agonized over the way it treated sexual assault victims, viz William Kennedy Smith case, in this case the wronged party was the accused, yet there seemed to be no institutional response from the sports editors to apologize for the inaccurate and reputation destroying portrayals. I fully understand the racial sensitivities involved, but I think justice and fairness require an apology.    — Adam Sugihara A. The Duke question has been addressed above and the Red Sox question is also familiar, but since I haven't addressed it in this session, I'll recast my answer from our 2006 "Talk to the Newsroom" session: Is Play Magazine Needed? Q. I've wondered: Why did the New York Times launch Play magazine? The market for sports magazines seems saturated with all kinds of offerings, not to mention the proliferation of online news sources. Moreover, The Times's sports section seems perfectly capable of delivering the stories published in Play. So, what's the game? Did The Times just want to give a NYT Magazine-type prestige to certain sports stories?   — Michael Rowe, Minneapolis A. First, let me explain that Play magazine is part of our magazine group, with the Sunday magazine, T and others and those magazines have separate editors. Play would not have been launched if the company didn't think it could be a winning business proposition. There's nothing wrong with raising the prestige of sports as far as I'm concerned. Why Is Belichick an Issue? Q. What exactly are the issues involving federal law that have Senator Arlen Specter so worried about protecting the country from Bill Belichick and videotaping coaches on the sidelines?  A. You can judge for yourself. There are at least two considerations. First, here is how Senator Specter answered that question: Second, here is what his critics question, as noted in an article by Judy Battista: According to the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics and its Web site, opensecrets.org, Mr. Specter has received $100,000 in campaign contributions since 2003 from the political action committee, owners or employees of Comcast Corp., the Philadelphia-based cable operator that is engaged, along with other cable companies, in a contentious battle with the N.F.L. over distribution of the NFL Network. Advantage Clarey Q. I just want to say that Christopher Clarey is by far the best tennis writer you have ever had there! His writing is so crisp and to the point — no surplusage or sarcasm or sardonic cracks — right to the point. He's the best tennis writer you've had.  Thank you!  A. Chris Clarey is terrific, we agree. But we've been fortunate to have a long line of terrific tennis writers. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 