For those who missed the Q&A with The Times’s Greg Bishop yesterday, I’m moving it from the comments section and making it a separate post. (Greg didn’t get a chance to answer questions until evening because he was traveling to Seattle.) steve glaser Just three questions/comments: 1. Doesn’t Favre (and his arm) look tired? His production and accuracy as well as deep ball ability seem to decrease each week. GREG BISHOP: Good evening everyone, and sorry for the delay today. I’m actually on assignment this week, and this is the first chance I could get to answer all these questions. I will try and get through all of them. For starters, Favre has been asked this question in a million different ways over the past month. I will agree that he does indeed appear to be tiring, but that’s only from my own personal observation. He says he doesn’t feel any worse than before. 2. Do the players like or respect Mangini? Seems there’s no fire. GREG BISHOP: It’s tough to get an honest answer from players about how they feel about their coach. I will say that players seem to like Mangini more now than they did previously. That’s in large part because of the things he has done — starting a player’s committee to handle issues, shortening practice times, especially during training camp, etc. I agree with most fans who wish they could see more fire from Mangini. I can also tell you there won’t be any more coming. 3. Love Leon W., but why does he let so many punts bounce instead of fair-catching? GREG BISHOP: Excellent point, Steve. He should have fielded or fair-caught both punts that were downed inside the 5-yard-line against the Bills. Mangini said this week that the worst-case scenario on punts like that is to have them bounce inside the 10 and down near the goal line. Gene How is it possible for the Jets run defense to go from stellar to just plain awful so rapidly? Is Jenkins hurt? Why does it look like the whole defense has forgotten how to tackle? Where’s the pass rush? GREG BISHOP: Gene, I think you hit on all the answers in your question. Jenkins is bothered by nagging hip injury, one that appeared on the injury report last week. He has not seemed like himself the past few games, but part of that could be because of the constant double teams he’s facing, and part of that could be from wearing down. Now, tackling is a different story. That Fred Jackson run? The one where he dragged half the defense into the end zone? Embarrassing. It would have been a huge deal had the Jets not pulled off their miracle victory. Joseph Why is Sutton still around? I thought he was a goner last year but he survived. At times it seems like he’s just trying to prove he won’t change. Everybody (including the results) is crying for more blitzing but week after week he fields his pathetic pass rush. It puzzles me. GREG BISHOP: Joseph, this is a question I’ve been getting a lot lately. There really is not a definitive answer. Last year, and again this year, Mangini has been peppered with questions as to why he continues to employ Bob Sutton. His answers have yet to provide any insight. In Sutton’s defense, there have been bright spots. Last season, the Jets defense played well after the bye week. Of course, it came late in the season. This year, the Jets have shown glimpses of a fearsome pass rush, and until three weeks ago, they stopped the run. What continues to mystify analysts is why the Jets don’t blitz more. Watching replays of the games it is pretty obvious — the Jets routinely rush three or four people at the passer, rarely more. When pressed, Mangini claims to not have any problems with his pass rush. But the numbers are there, in plain sight, of the decrease in production. Rich in Atlanta 1. Are we getting any more stability in the secondary or are we still juggling players? GREG BISHOP: The Jets are still in the process of finding the right combination, which is strange and scary at this point in the season. Drew Coleman, for instance, played against San Francisco, but was inactive — some would say with good reason — again last week. What seems to have solidified are the starting cornerbacks — recently named Pro Bowler Darrelle Revis and Ty Law. Side note: both went to Aliquippa High School in Pennsyvlania. 2. Is there any sign that the Jet braintrust plans to do anything about the consistent lack of pressure on the opposing QB’s? GREG BISHOP: See the above answer for a more detailed response, but the short one is this: no. The game plan has not changed in recent weeks. Sunday another opportunity presents itself: Seattle. The Seahawks have line issues, will be without quarterback Matt Hasselbeck and have struggled to run the football. The stars appear to be aligning … 3. Do you think Clowney will get more touches? GREG BISHOP: He sure made one heck of a first impression. It all depends on special teams, though. Say Brad Smith returns from the concussion this week. It would not surprise me if Clowney was inactive. The more catches he makes like that, though, the more likely he is to be playing on Sundays. 4. How is a billion dollar sports franchise unable to move a charter flight from friday to saturday? GREG BISHOP: Brilliant question. My favorite of the day so far. I’m stunned that was the explanation. Kathie Do you think the Jets’ defense just had a bad game or is it a real problem? .. what do you think are going to be the keys on winning this Sunday at sea? GREG BISHOP: Well, Kathie, I think the Jets defense has become its main problem. It’s not just the pass defense anymore. It’s the pass rush. It’s the rush defense. It’s all sorts of stuff. Keys to winning in Seattle: pressure quarterback Senaca Wallace, stop the run, force turnovers. Seattle is a loud place to play, and this will be the final game for Coach Mike Holmgren. The Jets are going to need to win this one on defense. Peter Glaser 1. Why is it that the Jets seem unable to bring their “A” game whenever they play on the West Coast; does the 3 hour time change really affect players that much? GREG BISHOP: Peter, I covered the Seahawks for parts of six seasons before I moved to New York, and I can say this having seen it both ways — the Jets struggles on the West Coast are atypical. For a team like the Seahawks, traveling across the country and playing in the 1 p.m. time slot is difficult — their body clocks are at 10 a.m. For the Jets, traveling to the West Coast should not have posed that kind of problem. They’re playing at 1 p.m. anyway. Records for teams across the league bear this out. Very few West Coast teams have won at 1 p.m. after traveling. Many East Coast teams have won the other way. Just not the Jets. 2. Also, I’ve noticed that in games they’ve won, the Jets typically run the ball and score early, whereas in games they’ve lost, they’ve gotten behind and abandoned the run before the end of the first quarter. Why do you think the Mangini is so quick to abandon a running game that is one of the top in the league? GREG BISHOP: In the games in which Mangini has abandoned the run, many times the Jets haven’t had possession of the ball long enough to get enough offensive snaps. That still doesn’t quite explain some of the games where Thomas Jones is limited to 10 touches, or Leon Washington is limited to three. Steve May Will the Jets staff ever learn how to make adjustments? GREG BISHOP: Adjustments have posed a problem this season, but you have seen some from game to game, if not quarter to quarter. Paul What’s the Jets’ salary cap situation this off-season and do you think they’ll make a (lesser) splash in free agency or the draft? (I’d also be interested to hear what you think their biggest area of need is.) GREG BISHOP: Paul, I appreciate the look ahead. The Jets have a lot of money tied into the players they traded for or signed this past off-season — Alan Faneca, Kris Jenkins, Damien Woody, etc. Brett Favre will again have a high cap number, but that could change depending on if he retires or decides to play another year (at 40, unreal, but I digress). As for needs, three stand out. 1. Secondary help: with Dwight Lowery, this year’s rookie cornerback, having a year under his belt, and with Darrelle Revis making the Pro Bowl this year, the Jets could add another cornerback to either start opposite Revis or cover the slot, with Lowery moving back to the starting cornerback position that he lost. 2. Quarterback: should Favre retire, as many expect, the Jets have Kellen Clemens and Brett Ratliff. Clemens struggled in the games he started last season, but let’s not be too quick to judge, because that came behind an awful offensive line. Ratliff has been impressive. But that’s still a lot of question marks at one of the most important positions. 3. Kicker: the Jets must decide if they want to re-sign Mike Nugent, the kicker they took with a very high draft pick in 2005. Nugent was injured this year, in stepped Jay Feely, and now the Jets have what you could call a place-kicking controversy. Who would have thought? Steven Looks like the pennington/favre swap could backfire big time for the Jets. Is this perception sinking in anywhere in or around the organization and if it turns out to be the case are Tannenbaum / Mangini’s days numbered? GREG BISHOP: I don’t agree with the backfire, although it would be almost poetic if Pennington knocked the Jets out of the playoffs. That would be their worst nightmare come to life. I still think that you’ve got to make the Favre trade. Pennington had struggled last season (behind, we know, an awful offensive line). Favre brought the Jets instant recognition and PSL money and a Hall of Fame arm that has played well, at times, this season. Pennington has been a complete surprise. He deserves all the credit that he is getting. But at the end of the day, on Aug. 15, if you had a choice between the two, who would you have chosen? Now, if the Jets do not make the playoffs, if they are bounced by, say, Pennington and Miami, absolutely I would say that Eric Mangini and Mike Tannenbaum would have some answering to do. I would expect the seats they sit on to heat considerably. George S. How long before our hearts are shattered? GREG BISHOP: George, that was an extremely powerful question, one that cut to the heart of what it means to be a Jets fan. And you did it in one sentence. My editors wish they were so lucky … Anyway, it just seems like it’s going to happen, right? The Jets win a tough one here in Seattle, the Dolphins win again, and then there comes Chad Pennington next week to wreck the dreams of all the fans who loved him … or criticized his arm strength. That would be the typical Jets ending. Reason for optimism: more veteran leadership, including several signings who have won Super Bowls. We will see just what kind of leadership Favre and Faneca and company can provide. kirby What’s the real deal with Gholston? Did the Jets just make a lousy pick or is there any hope for this stiff? GREG BISHOP: The jury is still out, and this will not be an answerable question for at least another year. Gholston has struggled this season, there is no doubt about that. But there are plenty of linebackers — Willie McGinest comes to mind — who did not make an immediate impact. I appreciate the fact — sounds like Mangini, right? — that he is the sixth overall pick and expected to make an impact, if not an immediate one. Remember, Gholston is switching positions. He missed mini-camps. He still has time. But the spotlight isn’t going to dim. Chris Was at the game on Sunday and I noticed the defensive players were doing a lot of pointing/talking to each other before each snap – moreso than other teams, it seems. Have you noticed this? Is that a sign of confusion or is that just normal communication? GREG BISHOP: Normal communication. Of course, when you’re rotating as many defensive backs in as the Jets are, it could increase. But this isn’t anything out of the ordinary. alyse Can you explain to me why inveterate Jets’ fans keep pointing to Favre, instead of the play-calling and suspect defense/secondary, as the problem, all-the-while suggesting their former never-winner/no-MVP Pennington would have fared better? No one’s negating the INT record, but the man executes many successful drives that the coaches and defense then fail to support…..just wondering what your take is. GREG BISHOP: Is that the voice of reason, I hear? I’m inclined to agree with you. The problems on this team do not start with Favre. The problems in most games do not start with Favre. No one is going to argue about the head-scratching interceptions, but the Jets knew they were getting that when they traded for him. The main issues on this team are on defense and with play calling. Those will ultimately determine the Jets postseason fate — if there is one — more than Favre will. Ian Do they really have a shot at beating a hot Dolphins team, and if they do, will they be able to win a playoff game? GREG BISHOP: Let me phrase your question a different way. If you had asked it three weeks ago, it would have been: Do the Dolphins really have a shot at beating a hot Jets team? See how quickly things change in the NFL? That said, the Jets have not played like a playoff team the past three weeks. Say they beat the Dolphins, at home, which isn’t a stretch. I think winning a playoff game would be. The Jets simply have too many holes. A leaky secondary that could have to face a passing team like Indianapolis. A pass rush that now crawls. Of course, there is still time — not much — to right the course. Mike DeMaio My comments today deal with the coach. I think it’s fair to point out that he took one team to the playoffs, his second team had no QB, and this team is 9-5. He deserves credit for that before we jump all over him. My first question is what is the strategic advantage to calling a timeout at 2:06? Other coaches do it, and I don’t get it. I wish someone could explain this to me. GREG BISHOP: Mike, always a pleasure. The short answer is that the Jets could have forced a punt, if all went according to plan, with taking the least amount of possible time off the clock. Essentially, by calling the timeout, they forced two plays in six seconds. But yes, I agree with you that this falls under curious but often-used NFL strategy. 2. I’ve watched Sunday’s post game press meeting twice now (Yes, I need a life). I thought maybe I missed something the first time. Do you think he really believes that the fumble was primarily caused by his heroic team? Correct me if I’m wrong, but weren’t the Jets the benefit of one of the worst play calls in recent memory? Compounded by a QB not knowing when to throw the ball away? Yes, the defense made a play (how amazing is Elam?), good for them. But doesn’t he realize that his offense slept-walked thru the 2nd half, failing to get even one first down after a great return, down 3 with 5 minutes to go and their season on the line. Did his defense just give up 27 points to a team that had scored a total of 6 points the last two weeks? I really don’t get it. As horrible as the play call was, I give Jauron a lot of credit for being man enough to step up and take full responsibility for it. For all we know the play caller made the call. Regardless of the call, the QB screwed up big time. A big time coach takes the fall for the mistakes of those under him. Kudos to Ralph Wilson for extending his coach’s contract. Mangenius should have acknowledged, in my view, his teams’ recent shortcomings, instead of trying to make it sound like his inspirational talk all week about ‘find a way to win the game’ was the reason the ball bounced into Ellis’s lap. Give me a break. GREG BISHOP: Well put, Mike, on all counts. The spin afterward left me a little dizzy. The whole talk of Mangini telling them they were going to win, he didn’t know how, but they were, and then this crazy miracle fell into their laps. I mean, come on. If the Bills just run the ball there, they win. Plain and simple. Of course, crazy things happen in the NFL, but they are unexpected, as this obviously was. 3. We all can see how poorly this team is playing. I would suggest a simple acknowledgment of this would go a long way towards keeping his critics at bay. For him to pretend it’s not happening makes me wonder how much of a handle he has on the situation. You can’t fix something if you don’t think it’s broke. Again, Eric, we have eyes, we can see the game. Does he talk to his team like this? He keeps saying things like “we talk all the time about our core values” I could see him after the game congratulating them on sticking with the core values. If he talks like this to them, it’s no wonder they don’t play hard for him GREG BISHOP: Short answer: yes. 4. Finally, a respectful shot at you and your colleagues. I heard someone ask Favre how he felt about Thomas Jones’ great year. Is that an attempt at serious journalism, or just a desire to suck up? After a game like that, why would anyone care what he thinks about that? How come you or someone else didn’t ask him something like “It seems you’ve played below par for three weeks in a row now. Is there any reason to think you can reverse that trend’? And by the way, what is the problem? GREG BISHOP: Fair enough, Mike. We spent a lot of time criticizing people, so I think it’s fair to ask that question. This will give you a little insight into my process: I skip Favre in the post-game and usually go for only half of Mangini. I find I have more success working the locker room than fighting to ask questions with two dozen of my closest friends. I would add that Favre has been asked a bunch about all the criticism he has taken. But I do see your point. Walt Bennett Greg, I have no questions for you today, because I know you have no answers. We’ll all just have to wait and see. Regards, Walt GREG BISHOP: Walt, I just about fell out of my chair on that one. You, sir, are a riot. Answers? Guilty as charged. Just try and figure this team out, and they will do something the next week — good, bad or awful — that you never expected. Would you prefer it any other way? wdef Why is it the Jets always seem to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory and break their fan’s hearts? Seriously, in your opinion why do you think that the Jets over the past 40 years have been unable, other then a few glimmers here and there, to be a successful franchise? Is it because being in the NYC area they don’t have to worry about attendance or revenue? Is it because the Jets manage to be owned by people who don’t really care to win? Though if it were being in NYC, then the Giants would not have the 3 superbowl victories since the 1980’s…… GREG BISHOP: The Jets have been losing longer than I have been alive. The first thing I did when I started the beat was read Gang Green by the longtime and excellent Times beat reporter Gerry Eskenazi. He sums it up better than I ever could. I will add this, however. I covered the Seahawks team that won a playoff game in 2005 for the first time in more than 20 years. And I do believe that losing for a long time — in strange ways — will eventually wear on the psyche of a team, even if the players are far removed from the old days. I think that plays into it, that here-we-go-again mentality. steve After watching both defenses in the Steeler – Ravens game, the Jets D has a long, long way to go toward scaring any QBs. There is no fire. Do you see them making any pass rush adjustments over next 2 weeks? Or will we see more of this ‘coverage’ D? GREG BISHOP: I wish I could say that I see it, but I don’t. The Jets seem content to not send too many guys after the quarterback. If they are going to do it, this week (see above) would seem ideal. JL If I was Mangini, in these last two games, I would: Set the Linebackers loose! Either they put the opposing QB on his back or we go home. Get conservative on Offense! Run first: give Thomas Jones and Leon Washington 40 carries a game, combined. There’s a lot of talent and money on that OL, challenge them. Use the run to set up the Favre play action. That’s how Favre and GB got to the NFC Championship game last year. GREG BISHOP: Sounds like a solid blueprint. Some of your fellow fans might disagree with the second point, though. They’ve been asking me for weeks why the Jets haven’t opened up the offense. Herb Why aren’t they running the ball more to keep their lousy defense off the field.They have two of the best running backs in the league and the highest payed offensive line. The only way to protect a suspect D is by controling the clock and keep the offense on the field, and of course score some points.Some of the biggest plays this season have been from simple running plays. A more consistent running game will also open up some big pass plays. GREG BISHOP: Good point, Herb, and for more proof, just look at the games the Jets won. In most of them, they ran the ball effectively. Or look at the times that Favre has thrown deep. Most of those plays were set up by the run. The good news, for you fans at least, is that snow is on the ground here in Seattle. And more is predicted for the weekend. So you could see conditions in which the Jets may have to run the ball, putting this theory to the test. Scott 1. Who are the likely candidates to replace Sutton next year? I’ve heard Crennel’s name mentioned, but wouldn’t he want to return to new england in some capacity before becoming Mangini’s subordinate? Clearly Mangini isn’t much of an X’s and O’s guy and Crennel might think its beneath him to report to someone of Mangini’s limited experience? GREG BISHOP: Crennel is the obvious name, but I wouldn’t count Sutton out yet. I didn’t think the Jets would bring him back this season, but they did. Remember the Rob Ryan rumors? That said, you make a good point on Crennel. He and Mangini were always at or near the same coaching level. I wonder if he’d want to come in as a No. 2. 2. Also, assuming the Favre expiriment is a 1-and-done, who’s got the edge on Starting QB next season? Clemens seems to be the obvious choice but I’ve heard there’s a lot of support for Ratliff among the players and coaches. Any chance we have a diamond in the rough in Ratliff? GREG BISHOP: At this point, you’d have to give the edge to Clemens. He does have starting experience. He was in a competition to become the quarterback in training camp. The coaches are really high on Ratliff, too, but Clemens would have the edge based on experience. Mike Do you have any observations about Brian Schottenheimer’s play-calling during the recent mini-swoon? During the win streak, particularly the Tennessee game, the Jets seemed to be calling many more quick-release slants, screens, and other fast-paced short stuff that kept the defense on its heels. Lately the team has slowed and often stalled, and Schott seems to always call the wrong play just when the defense is ready for it. Any thoughts? GREG BISHOP: Good question, Mike. In the NFL, things change so quickly, so what analysts are saying is that teams have figured out the Jets short passing attack. That’s why the offense has looked so confused lately. What had gone so well during the winning streak hasn’t gone well after it. Teams are covering those short passes, which should lead to play action, but has not. normhud Will Joe Namath be at the Seattle game?  GREG BISHOP: I doubt that he will be there, but I’m not sure. Adam H Why is it that the linebackers, who are involved in stuffing the run, don’t seem to be that involved in either the pass rush OR effectively dropping back into coverage? The secondary (or the non-Revis/Rhodes half) justifiably pick up a lot of blame for inconsistency, but I just don’t see a lot of short passes/screens being broken up by certain converted DE’s… GREG BISHOP: Fair point. The Jets have struggled in coverage, but part of that blame can be assigned by the linebackers. They also were missing David Harris for much of the past month or so, leaving David Bowens, a pass-rush specialist, covering more than the Jets would like. Calvin Pace has also struggled at times in pass coverage, although I’m still amazed a man of that size can run the way he can. Think, please Which of these do you agree with: 1) Leon Washington allows the ball to ‘bounce’, as opposed to fair-catching because: a-its a risky catch b- letting it bounce out forces the opposing D to keep chasing it ’til the play is dead. c- poor ball judgement GREG BISHOP: A pop quiz, I love it! My answer would be C, although it has been atypical of Leon Washington to mkae those kinds of mistakes. Mangini basically said on Monday that those balls should have been fielded or fair-caught. 2) Is it possible to get this message across to the Jets D: I don’t care if we lose a game, MAKE THOSE TACKLES! 3) I think its still likely that Brett will return next year; however, I also think based on his on-field stature, Brett Ratcliff will be an excellent replacement…should Brett not be able to return. There is something in his posture that just remind me of Favre…do you agree? GREG BISHOP: I’m with you 100 percent. I like the way that Ratliff carries himself. I like the way he throws. I wouldn’t be suprised at all if he turned into a diamond in the rough. william j sherman I have been a Jet fan and a season ticket holder for a long time ….. It has not been easy! It seems as though everytime it looks like we are getting something going poof! it is gone. I really think that Big Tuna was the only chance we had and that Vinny T just wasn’t up to making the summit Sad to say we will see Mangini run out of town before long. The way it is meant to be I can only suppose GREG BISHOP: I feel for Jets fans. One of my good friends, Joe, is among the biggest Jets fans you will ever meet. I can hear the frustration in his voice. I can see how he keeps waiting for the proverbial other shoe to drop. Some team has to break the curse. Right? Jeff S 1. I think that Tannenbaum and the rest of the front office have been given a pass on their incompetency of allowing Pennington to go free agent and sign with a division rival. The party line is they had to do somethng by 4 PM the next day and didn’t have time to arrange a trade. They should have been working on a plan B at the same time they were negotiating with the Packers regarding Favre. I cannot believe a team like Minnesota or Tampa Bay wouldn’t have been delighted to get Pennington at a discount. And then to lie and say, well they did it out of respect for Chad. Give me a break. We’ll see how much of a break Chad gives them next Sunday to thank them for allowing him to sign with whomever he wanted. GREG BISHOP: This is a good and often overlooked point. The party line from the Jets end is that they had to clear $6 million in cap space, and Pennington’s salary happened to match. Plus, he wanted to play. Now, to allow him to sign with a division rival certainly raised some eyebrows. I mean, Bill Belichick did it with Drew Bledsoe, but at least he received a first-round pick. I don’t think anyone expected Pennington or the Dolphins to make this kind of turnaround, but you’re right, the results could be absolute disaster. 2. The fact is their offense was not geared to Favre. What good does it do to have a guy who can fling the ball downfield if you don’t have receivers who can achieve separation downfield? And no more of this idiotic “noodle” arm charge on Chad. Take a loot at Miami’s passing statistics for this year and how many long receptions Miami has. The fact is Mangini and Tannenbaum had no respect for Chad. They couldn’t wait to get rid of him despite the fact he led them to the playoffs 3 times in recent years and won a playoff game in San Diego and came within a missed field goal of winning another in Pittsburgh. They had Chad Pennington’s offense. Why not have Chad Pennington lead it. And when Favre reitres after this year, they’ll be left with nothing. What a bunch of morons the front office was this year. GREG BISHOP: Harsh words, but definitely worth discussing depending on how these final games play out. One thing I would add is that Pennington was no lock to be the Jets starting quarterback in the first place. He did appear to be winning the job, but it was a competition. Jim Stanford It seems the Jets coaching staff has had trouble making adjustments at halftime of games. Also, when the momentum shifts during a game and the Jets get into a rut, particularly on offense, it seems the coaching staff does little to change things around, other than standing there looking slightly dismayed. Thoughts? GREG BISHOP: Jim, I addressed this a bit earlier. The simplest answer is that they have not adjusted well, that they stick too much to the script and don’t go as much with the hot player/plays they have in the play book. This will be something to follow down the stretch. L. Taylor Why do you think the Giants are so much better than the Jets? Is it the coaching? The talent? The history? The superior look and style? The prideful reference to greatness as opposed to the cheesy green West Side Story reference? The stadium name constantly reminding the Jets of their second-class status and inherent inferiority? Their 14-year-old Boston educated coach? That festering, impossible-to-get-over crush on Broadway Joe? I don’t hate the Jets. I just don’t understand why they fail, and fail, and fail, and the Giants are just so damn classy. Explain. GREG BISHOP: Ouch. Jets fans on this board can probably relate to what you’re saying, even if they don’t appreciate you saying it.  Kevin Clarke L. Taylor, Giants fan since 2/08. GREG BISHOP: Double ouch! Rich in Atlanta 1) Are you starting to wish you’d showed up at 9:00 a.m.? GREG BISHOP: Yes! Mike DeMaio i just want to thank you, I’m sure everyone who writes in agrees, for taking the time to put up with us hapless Jets fans. GREG BISHOP: I appreciate you guys as well. I appreciate your enthusiasm, your knowledge of the team and your tortured history. Next week will probably be similar since I will still be in Seattle. Feel free to post questions during the day, and I will do my best to try and find time to answer all of them. Joseph Did the Jets have a shot at Michael Turner? GREG BISHOP: This is a good question to end things on. I don’t see that happening, not with the players they have under contract. Or with how Turner has played. Comments are no longer being accepted. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.     The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…     The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…     John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement 