On Broadway in Manhattan this morning you could not miss them — a big blue surge of spectators lining the streets. Thousands of fans turned out to see the New York Giants, fresh from a Superbowl win on Sunday, march victoriously through the Canyon of Heroes in Lower Manhattan. But as the players were feted with a ticker-tape parade, some Iraq veterans were asking: Why not us? In an article published in Tuesday’s newspaper, Kate Taylor talked to some of the advocates for a veterans’ parade, including Paul Rieckhoff, founder and executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “Everybody recognizes that the Giants deserve a parade,” he said. But, he added, “If a football team gets a parade, shouldn’t our veterans?” But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York has cited the Pentagon’s own advice as the reason for not holding a veterans’ parade. The argument goes that it is not appropriate to hold a parade while American soldiers are still fighting in Afghanistan. The Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America have taken their challenge of that logic directly to the Pentagon, via Twitter: .@PentagonPresSec what’s stopping America from having two parades to honor our returning Iraq and Afghanistan #vets? #AskDoD @DeptofDefense — IAVA (@iava) February 6, 2012  So far, there is no response on Twitter from the George Little (@PentagonPresSec), the Pentagon Press Secretary. IAVA asked the question during a “first ever DoD Twitter town hall” according to Mr. Little. The Department of Defense recently posted that answers to some of the questions are coming later today.  Today we’ll respond to a few of the questions from yesterday’s Twitter Town Hall where we can offer specific resources or #s #AskDoD — U.S. Dept of Defense (@DeptofDefense) February 7, 2012  You can find more chatter on Twitter on the issue happening right now. At War is a reported blog from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and other conflicts in the post-9/11 era. The New York Times's award-winning team provides insight — and answers questions  — about combatants on the faultlines, and civilians caught in the middle. The New York Times has established an education fund for the children of Sultan Munadi, an Afghan journalist who was slain in Afghanistan in 2009. Learn more about him and how you can contribute here. »     Marine Corps Captain Calum Rammhe, a longtime marathon runner, ran seven marathons on seven continents in seven days to raise money for a charity that supports wounded Marines and their families. It also let him reflect on why running is more than a hobby for him. Read more…     A physical therapist describes the powerful bonds she formed with the wounded veterans and her fellow physical and occupational therapists at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center. Read more…     A former Marine Corps officer argues that good leadership makes all the difference in smoothing the integration of women into combat units. Read more…     Hundreds of letters from an Army private named Harold Grove Moss, whose tour of duty spanned Pearl Harbor to the surrender of Japan, have been transcribed and posted online by his daughter. Read more…     A Vietnam-era veteran says presidential candidates should not be judged harshly just because they did not serve during that war. Read more… Follow Advertisement 