Advertisement DEC. 22, 2007  Interview with Sergei Minaev, November 12, 2007 Q: You do this every time, go clubbing in Moscow when  Frederic Beigbeder [the French writer] visits? A: Yes. We’ve been doing this for five years already. It’s some kind of never-ending story. In Paris we do more civilized things sometimes. We had fun, but it’s already hard on my health. Chronic lack of sleep. Q: I’m sorry we didn’t make it into the nightclub. A: That’s idiotic Moscow “face control.” You understand, we don’t have a head on our shoulders. Everyone is playing at Studio 54. They all think that if you do this, if you put 28 brutes at the door and one idiot in charge of “face control,” then you’ll immediately be like Ian Schrager and Steve Rubell, and you’ll immediately have Studio 54 and all the stars. But that’s not the case. The popularity of a club is made by people and atmosphere. Moscow clubs are a tale unto themselves, completely a tale unto themselves.” “Morrisey has a great song, “Glamorous Glue.” It’s exactly about this. I love Morrissey. “Where is the woman you like, where is the man you respect.” That’s exactly about Moscow. “London is dead, London is dead.” You just have to change it to Moscow is dead, Moscow is dead, and it will be exactly the same. Advertisement Q: So what you write about in the book, that was earlier in your life? A: Yes, I had a period when I was 24-28 years old. I was part of a heavy scene that began Friday evening and as a rule ended on Monday morning. This was about age 24-27. Now, I don’t go out except for exceptional cases, like when Frederic is here, then we go out. Now, we get together at home and talk, the same format as in kitchens in the 1980s. That’s much more pleasant because you’re surrounded only by those people whom you like. There’s none of that showing off. It’s completely peaceful. Advertisement Only the interiors, and just slightly the dialogues. In principle everything remains the same on this scene. And of course foreigners go wild in Moscow. They immediately go crazy.” Q: Beigbeder’s book is about that, isn’t it? A: It’s a total reflection of Moscow through the eyes of a foreigner in 2007. They go crazy because there’s a sea of money here. Everything is permissible. They call this true freedom, but true freedom does not consist of buying relatively inexpensive prostitutes and cocaine and snorting it in public places. This is not a sign of true freedom. I think under Pol Pot in Kampuchea, some members of society could also easily use narcotics and buy women for the night. No one speaks of there being true freedom there. Q: Well what about Georgia, where you predicted conflict between Moscow and Georgia? How did you come up with that? A: Everything in Georgia is happening very logically, because this so-called revolution, of carnations, or roses, some revolution happened there. What next? Next you have to justify some credit of trust allocated to you by the electorate. If nothing is happening on the economic front, in terms of life improving, then you have to quickly find enemies. First internal enemies appear. It’s enough to imprison them or expel them from the country. Then problems begin with Abkhazia and adjacent states. Naturally, when your neighbor is Russia, this infringes on your interests. Doubtless, some point of conflict will appear. They just didn’t translate “Media Sapiens” for [Georgian President Mikheil] Saakashvili. I had two helicopters, but in reality there were two planes. It was as if they copied half of the book. In my view, politics has turned into something that’s half a Miss Something or Other competition, and the Superbowl. Once every four years the electorate has to be entertained, so that it would go and vote. Advertisement Q: You mean politics in general? A: “Of course. It’s a big farce, a big vaudeville, because the person of the 21st century is lazy and, generally speaking, obtuse. Everything that is done around us, starting with restaurants, we are brought beautiful bread, everything is served beautifully. Everything has to be beautiful. That is the motto of the 21st century. Every person who is in a major corporation, major politicians, showbusinessmen, they all appear on screen with just one phrase: ‘Let me entertain you.’ Everyone wants to be entertained. That’s why everything turns into such show business. I don’t see any difference between a gala concert of stars of the 1970s and [political] debates. The former lip-synch from year to year, the latter from cycle to cycle give the same promises, which clearly won’t be fulfilled, and they constantly repeat them.” Q: But you’re participating in the campaign somehow right now, in the Za Putina [“For Putin”] Web site? A: “Yes, yes. My close friend Kostya Rykov is running on the United Russia ticket. I’m supporting my friend. For me these relations are much more important than all of politicians and show business, that’s to begin with. Secondly, indeed I see no alternative to Putin right now, that’s true.” Q: And you speak about this on the video on the Za Putina site? A: No, I speak of completely other things. Of the fact that it’s all become a vaudeville. I did’nt call on anyone to go to the ballot boxes and vote for us. I just said what I think. Q: That things are bad and there are no options? A: It’s not just that there are no options. Putin is the only competent politician who has appeared here in the last 16 years. I became disenchanted with our so-called opposition forces a long time ago. I understood that they are a shadow cast by a lamp on the wall. You can’t tell them apart. It’s enough to look at the most recent events, when two young men — this was pure ‘Media Sapiens’ — two young men set themselves on fire in front of cameras. The firemen and ambulances were standing there so they wouldn’t burn seriously. This is all like kindergarten. This is all like kindergarten. Advertisement Q: Can you talk about how you were a successful entrepreneur and decided to write? A: I’m in the wine business, a partnership in one of the three largest wine [distribution] companies in Moscow. And about five years ago I started to write in the Internet, just for fun, because I had to entertain myself somehow. I started to write a column for Burzhyazny Zhurnal (Bourgeois Magazine). It became very popular. And then, at some point, I began to write a book, and it was so spontaneous, it was so spontaneous that I wrote it very quickly. I wrote it in six months. Then I teased it out for three months, goofed around really. But there was no goal. No one was thinking of a bestseller or anything like that. No. I think that the product, that is the book, coincided well with the time, with good distribution. All the factors somehow fell into place. We sold the screen rights to “Dukhless” for a record sum for this market. The film hasn’t been made yet because there are big problems with the screenplay. Right now I remain in the wine business. I write. And I’ve opened a publishing house. We’re readying projects for launch. I’m trying to be a good publisher, to meet with people, talk with them. I’m an author myself. I know what it’s like to walk through those corridors and the bastion of editors. Every editor has his or her one taste. I don’t exclude the possibility that if Bret Easton Ellis came to a Russian publisher with his “American Psycho,” he would be told, how awful, we won’t publish this. Right now I’m concentrating on publishing. There’s some kind of explosion of media activity around me right now. I’m tired of giving interviews. That’s why I’m not coming out with anything now. My next book will be in January. “The Tyolki.” “The Chicks.” It’s an amusing story. It’s about a gossip writer, a typical Moscow character, who’s romancing three girls at once, dreams of putting out a disc of his own rap group and so forth. A person who’s constantly living in a net that he created himself, like most Moscow characters. I’ll finish it now. I have two chapters left. And then I’ll continue writing a book that I thought up a year ago. About the future, in which that which we’ve been expecting for so long will finally happen: international corporations will merge with the authorities. You know the famous phrase that politics is just a shadow that business casts on society. It’s about a totalitarian society. Completely morally degraded on the one hand and completely puritan fundamentalist from the television screens. It’s a classical model. From the television screens they preach family values, then they go have sex with 14-year-olds and snort cocaine. That’s what will happen in the future. And we have it now. In the future I think it will be. But the book’s not about that. The book is about how a little man is chewed up by the system, when he understands that this system and you’re not even a screw but some kind of speck of dust how the system grounds people up and how you personally can fight this to cut your losses. Q: All your books are a bit about this. “Dukhless,” too. The protagonist works in a corporation. A: The main conflict is always inside the hero. It’s not outside. It’s always inside. You can do some awful things, or not. Advertisement But it’s always your choice, and the conflict is always in your own head. And it’s the same thing with the system. Any social institution in which the state dominates you can replace this with a corporate institution this is a system. You either lead the system or you enter it and go with the flow and become a cog. If you don’t lead it and you’d don’t go with the flow but start to resist, it pushes you into an asocial niche. That’s why things are very good now. You don’t need Gulags anymore. You don’t need Auschwitzs. If someone protests, they’re immediately given a television show, they’re stuck in a marginal niche and told sit there. And people like this. People like the negative. They like aggression. If we listen to a radio show, I know as a host with six months experience, as soon as you start to attack listeners and start to argue with them on the air, and argue in such a way that you refute their words, to attack their dignity, there’s a flood of calls. People are ready to call in order to get a portion of ugliness addressed towards them. Society is getting stupider by the minute. Did you see the last ‘Simpsons,’ the movie? There’s a brilliant scene where the mayor comes out and says our city has won the title of dirtiest city of America. There’s a pause, and then a guy starts to chant ‘Springfield!’ How else can you explain this? It’s like ‘Borat,’ which is not a movie about Kazakhstan. I love Cohen. Nazarbayev should give Cohen a medal for promoting Kazakhstan. I was invited to a conference in Kazakhstan about two years ago on international, interregional ties. I said I would come if Cohen is invited and I speak together with him. Mankind is getting rapidly stupider. We’re not advancing anywhere, we’re only falling behind. We have I-Phones already, wireless Internet, virtual sex, but we’re getting stupider and stupider.”  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There was a poll on the streets of Moscow. Boys and girls up to 23 years of age, about the Soviet Union. They say it was cool, the Komsomol, Pioneers. Then they’re asked: “Did you know you couldn’t leave the country?” “Get outta here?!” This was on television. To the following question, about concentration camps and millions of people dying there in 1937, the answer is: “Come on!” It’s revolting. People don’t want to grow at all. Russia has a persistent myth. We’re a country of mythologies — that the population of the USSR read more and that now people read less. But everyone forgets that when I was a 13-year-old kid, I had to read a lot because there was nothing else to do. Either play soccer or read Hugo because you don’t have a 24-hour sports channel, or cartoons, those things our children have, no computer. That’s for one. I remember apartments of the 1980s very well, where books were the best gift. All of the shelves were stuffed, classics, back to back. They were never read, they were decoration. So, it was a myth that people read more. Advertisement Q: Many accuse you of taking themes from Beigbeder and what he wrote resembles your writing. A: Yes, but Beigbeder also been accused of copying Bret Easton Ellis. That’s understandable. When you’re writing about the same world you can’t have different epitaphs. And you simply can’t describe all this crassness and abomination in any other way. The thing is that among Russian literary critics it’s customary to elevate losers to a cult and exaggerate completely insignificant things. So, a successful project will not elicit anything but negative comments from them. There was a very funny story. The first print-run of “Dukhless” was 8,000 copies. And they began to speak of me as a promising writer. Critics spoke of me as promising. When the print-run reached 50,000 they tried to find a mass of contradictions and accuse me of imitation. When it crossed 100,000 they called me waste paper. So, you understand, if I had remained at 8,000, I would probably immediately be an unrecognized cult writer. They get very irritated that I don’t go to literary gatherings and bow down to their talent, and I quite openly and aggressively criticize them. They tried to accuse “Media Sapiens” of being ordered by the Kremlin, but when the second volume came out they immediately quieted down. Before that they tried to write that nothing like that is happening, that such manipulations don’t occur, that it’s child’s play, that no one uses such methods. Then we see Georgia. Then we see all these soldiers being presented as political candidates. It’s clear that the first who yells “Stop thief!” at a train station is the thief. Q: Are you planning to seek out new talent? A: Seek out is a serious term. When I wrote on my blog that I’m starting a publishing house, I was sent 95 manuscripts. I simply had to choose from them. I chose five. I found some totally brilliant young people from the Internet. Of course, I’ll build some relations with known authors too. But the main goal is to pull up young writers who are shuttling around publishing houses. Young authors come. Girls and boys. A girl came and said, “Critique my manuscript.” I said, “I’m not a censor, not a critic. I can’t write anything. Why do you need this, why did you write a book?” She looked at me like a complete idiot. “What do you mean, why? If the print-run is big, I can get on television, get my own show right away.” I dream of writing a pseudo-autobiography with the kitschiest possible name, like “Star,” about a writer who falls for everything I was smart enough to avoid, such as hosting corporate parties, festivals. They pay well for that. Appearing on idiotic TV shows, such as glamorous interviews. I was smart enough to avoid this. I want to write a book about someone who was swept away by all this. And about relations with publishers. This is really funny too. Young authors who’ve been around publishing houses say the publishers look and say, “What have you got here? You write like Minaev, but you don’t mention enough music, or have enough cursing or drugs. You need to add it all. I needed a scene with marijuana in order to show how a person goes mad.” Not to show that people should use heroin or smoke marijuana. God forbid. Advertisement Q: But there’s a lot of cocaine in Dukhless. A: “Of course, because cocaine is snorted by the ton in Moscow. And when I’m accused of this, I say, “Look, this is like writing about the life of a prostitute without using the word condom. Are we writing the truth or not?” I’ve cut back on back on participation in literary talk shows. Because this is horrific. The people who were sitting there, they were driving me crazy. The editor of Knizhnoye Obozrenie, a certain Gavrilov, was there, and the famous writer Yuri Polyakov. And when they started to talk about popular literature and serious literature, Gavrilov looked askew at me, as if everyone was supposed to attack me. Polyakov was asked who he likes among young writers, and he said Minaev, he gave a super impression of an era. And everyone immediately laughed. [There was a 26-year-old boy who said in all seriousness: “I write in such a way so that 300 years from now I won’t be ashamed. Will he come back in 300 years to check? There were mad female critics who said you cannot approach literature by a gender peg. It’s not a literary term. What is this gender peg? Mad people, who fell out of everywhere, who play at being this literary elite. This is horrible. And what’s characteristic, they allow themselves to make totally nasty comments about the audience. “The public’s taste...Well they’ll always prefer Baltika beer to a good bottle of French wine.” I said: “Guys, you can’t talk like that in a country where the average salary is $200 a month and a bottle of good wine costs $50. If the mass consumer was standing next to you, he would smash your face in.” And he would be right. Because this pseudo-snobbism, when you earn $100 for a column and think you’re kings, it’s goes as far as your apartment, all this unjustified showing off. I’ve determined the formula of modern Moscow society. Fake pathos is present at all levels. Salespeople in stores show off to each other with their new cell phones. Clerks with their cars, men their women. Literary critics show off with absurd verbal twists. The level of showing off, of pathos, is just off the scale. If this showing of could be exchanged for money we’d all be millionaires. There’s no one in Moscow who doesn’t show off. Some just have nothing to show off. Everything turns in an instant into pathos. This is horrible. Only here and in New York and in maybe in London do you have people who earn $1,000 and buy themselves phones for $1,200, on credit. Advertisement For example, the market in counterfeit watches here is huge. Clerks with salaries of $1500 wear on their wrists watches the originals of which cost $25,000. It doesn’t even cross their minds that people who know watches will never believe that these are real. If we actually reach the point thanks to nanotechnologies when we will be able to clone people, all of the oligarchs will quickly clone themselves Madonna, Eva Herzigova, I don’t know what other famous models, will immediately clone them and say this is the real Kate Moss. This is very funny. Q: You write about what happens to women in this society, which is so full of pathos and glamour. A: I describe this in one phrase. You know, before women with the help of their genitalia took cities. Now they take cars. Everything is being devalued. “I love you,” has turned into the analogue of the American phrase, “What’s up?” It doesn’t mean anything. Or “How are you?” When an American says “How are you?” to you, he has no interest in finding out how you really are. It’s just an introduction. That’s what “I love you” has become. Filler. The word has completely devalued, because feelings have devalued, and it’s clear it can’t be any other. If ten years ago we could think in categories of people against brands, like Naomi Klein, now people are together with brands, because people and brands have received equal rights to life. It’s not clear which is more important, you or what you’re wearing. Most likely the latter.” In what city in the world can you imagine an advertising banner that says the following: “Attention: Such and Such a Beauty Salon. Best Price on Botox, 150 rubles per injection.” If a person comes here, he will immediately understand that there are three popular things here. You must have Botox, against wrinkles. The most popular things are Botox, sushi and Bentley. That’s all. Three things. In many restaurants sushi has become the Russian national food. Cantinetta has good Italian food. But many Italian restaurants have sushi. Where else can you imagine this? If there’s a strip bar, it immediately becomes a whorehouse. I’m amazed cocaine isn’t sold in pharmacies here yet.” The crisis of the hero in Dukhless was my crisis, of course. I was deeply depressed. Literature is also a collective psychoanalyst. We are people cut in half. We were born “v sovke,” Then in the 1990s they drastically changed everything. They said, “OK, now we’re watching another channel. We’re not watching this one anymore.” They said forget about all the heroes, forget about the entire cultural heritage, forget about everything. We’ve changed the picture. Now survive.” It’s like throwing house pets into the forest. And naturally those who survived lived through a lot, and that’s why now they’re being broken. There’s a huge stratum of people who didn’t notice that anything changed. They simply moved from kitchens into clubs and spent all these years in a haze, and now they’ve woken up to find it’s 1984 again. Advertisement Q: You were entered college in the early 1990s? “In 1992. At the Russian State University for the Humanities, the historical archives faculty. I’m a historian. I defended my diploma on the Gorbachev era. My specialty was modern history. I wrote several works. On the Irish Republican Army, on Ivan the Terrible’s Oprichnina, and in particular I closely studied the history of the Third Reich. I’m still convinced that from the point of view of mass propaganda and advertising there’s been nothing new since the time of Goebbels. He didn’t have television. He had only radio, but he and Molotov put on such a show. He is absolutely the founder of modern propaganda, and advertising too. The modern world is absolutely fascist. We live in the thrall of standards. Men must look like this, this and this. Women must look like this, this and this. All who are not within these bounds must strive for them, or be losers. That’s a completely fascist doctrine. I’m surprised there aren’t people standing with rulers outside nightclubs and measuring the distance between people’s ears. Probably they will be soon, and that will be right in this situation. All of modern consumer society is, without a doubt, is profoundly fascist. You can see this by Africa. People have problems finding drinking water. But you can always find Coca-Cola. How is this possible? I studied the history of the Third Reich. I found incredible facts. It’s clear that the Soviet Union of those years and Fascist Germany were twins. It’s no secret for anyone. But the fact that in the contemporary situation, all of these speeches, all of these propaganda approaches, in one way or another serve as the template for the speeches of many politicians. The direct speech of Goebbels is incredibly modern, just change radio to television and no problem. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 