We’ve selected some reader responses to John Maxymuk’s countdown series on Giants Stadium, which hosted its last Giants game on Sunday.  At the beginning of the season, Will Leitch of New York magazine wrote   that “no one cries for the Meadowlands,” but “let’s try to appreciate it for what it is: a bygone civic treasure, in its own way.” It might be hard to be in an appreciative mood, after the Giants’ collapse, and after a season of anxiety for many fans who faced tough decisions about the higher prices at the new stadium next year. But they can’t take away the memories: No. 1 on Giants Stadium Countdown: Playoffs? Yes, After 18 Years  Paul From White Plains: It is appropriate that this 1981 game be considered the no. 1 Giants Stadium memory. After losing to the Panthers yesterday and not making the playoffs, all Giants fans are deeply disappointed. But just think back to the good life as a Giants fan ever since their first Super Bowl victory in 1987. We have been spoiled with many, many postseason appearances and almost as many memorable playoff victories, including 3 N.F.L. championships. In 1981 we just wanted to MAKE the playoffs. I was at that game and it was freezing cold from beginning to end. When Danelo clanked the first kick in overtime, we all thought “same old Giants”. But when he made the second kick, it was literally like a weight had been lifted off the back of every Giants fan everywhere. I was in a dream state all the way home and for many days after. The win over the Eagles (thank you Rob Carpenter) was icing on the cake. The loss to the 49ers was sad, but we finally had real hope for the future. Just making the playoffs in those days was like winning the Super Bowl for Giants fans. We need to remember that today in our disappointment of yesterday. It’s still great to be a Giants fan. And they will be back.  db19 from Scarsdale: An inspired choice for #1. As a long-suffering fan who followed the team to Yale, Shea and NJ, this game was really a turning point. The Giants NEVER beat the Cowboys back then and to beat Dallas and go to the playoffs was almost unimaginable. It was just a few years earlier that people were flying planes with banners and burning tickets. I never saw the stuff after 1987 as being as significant (and I was away for Mara’s death). Spot on the top three picks and after that it gets pretty subjective. Never saw the Vikings thing as such a big deal b/c they lost the Super Bowl anyway-badly. No. 2 on the Countdown: To the Super Bowl, Wind at Their Backs. EB from Brooklyn: I was sitting in sec. 321, three rows from the top of the stadium, in the heart of the vortex, which was running counter clockwise up there that day. My enduring memory is of the great burst of homemade confetti/trash thrown after the Manuel touchdown, and spending the rest of the game getting blindsided every few minutes by a slap of junk on the left side of the face. Great times!!! Warren: Upon entering the stadium, my eyes gazed up to the upper decks and the swirling ticker-tape parade Giant fans had taken upon themselves to set up. NYC mayor Ed Koch had derided local fans saying that Gotham would not hold any Victory Parade for the G-Men if they were to win the NFC and the forthcoming Super Bowl. Giant fans did not grouse, however, but took action, just as the beloved Giants were polishing off a longtime nemesis 17-0. A number of players, like Jim Burt, also left the playing field at the end of the game and launched themselves into the stands to partake in the fanfest–and this was long before the Packers ever did that. No. 3 on the Countdown: Burt Delivers Knockout vs. Niners.  AK-DK From North Jersey: Great game, total domination. I remember seeing Rice running free and inexplicablly dropping that ball. I went from ” Oh no!” to “Oh yeah!” That team devastated opponents throughout the playoffs with mind blowing power. The greatest Giants team of the modern era.   Joe From New York: I’d agree with Burt on that play: it was not the proudest moment in Giants history. Montana came into the game like a weakened gazzelle, and it was a common assumption that the Giants could win the game by taking Montana out. and that’s what the win looked like—they took Montana out, and they won. Retrospectively, they could have won if Burt didn’t inflict damage on Montana. And when I saw the Burt hit, it seem intended to do damage to Montana. Burt didn’t let up on it, but went full force, even when he knew he would never get there in time to stop Montana from releasing the ball. That is exactly the kind of stuff that has to be discouraged in the NFL today. No. 4 on the Countdown: 41-0 Victory Over the Vikings.  Fuzzy From New York: I was lucky enough to be at the Meadowlands that day. My overriding memory is an anxious pregame crowd and then 2 minutes into the game 70,000 people were chanting, “Super Bowl! Super Bowl!” In retrospect, that game was Sean Payton’s coming out party.  Karl P. From Brooklyn: That NFC Championship game WAS the Giants’ Super Bowl that year. But what they did in that game was no small feat – dominated the team that in most people’s minds was the most talented in the conference. Fassel and Collins’s finest hour with the team, without a doubt. No. 5 on the Countdown: George Martin’s Slow-Motion Return. Shawn Davis: With the exception of many of Joe Morris’s bursts up the middle and into the end zone, it seemed to me that EVERYTHING the Giants did that year was in slow motion.  AK-DK: I’ll never forget Big George and Harry Carson gettin’ down on the 50 yard line after the Super Bowl. Two good guys who deserve the champagne after years of attrition. No. 6 on the Countdown: Loss Is a Victory (the Giants fall to the Patriots in the 2007 regular-season finale).  Michael H.: Nearly error free football by both teams made this look like the Superbowl preview it was. My most memorable moment was the Patriot reaction to the Moss touchdown – sheer little boy joy from a team that had been in a pressure cooker created by its own success. No. 8 on the Countdown: Sehorn’s interception. UltimateNYG: I was at the (preseason) game that he tore his ACL/MCL and I was also there for this highlight reel special. Yes, one of the best plays I have ever seen. I remember my jaw dropping, because I could not comprehend what I had seen.. when you are there live you do not have a voice on the TV confirming what you are looking at. So the play is over, the stadium is going nuts and me and my friends are just looking at each other with jaws agape and incredulous eyes. We knew what we saw but we had to give ourselves confirmation that it did happen the way we saw it. We had to watch the replay on the jumbotron to appreciate what we saw. Incredible. Bakes: Definitely one of my all-time favorite plays. About the worst coaching decision Fassel ever made was trying Sehorn out as a return man. By the way… aren’t we over the whole “white cornerback” thing by now that it still merits mention? Extra Point: We’ll have a separate post on The Fumble, which had the most reader responses. The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.     The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…     The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…     John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement 