Advertisement By JOHN F. BURNSJUNE 23, 2008  DOUGLAS, Isle of Man — Halfway down the suburban road that descends Bray Hill, past the traffic lights, between the elementary school and rows of homes with families relaxing in their front yards, there is a barely perceptible bump. Crouching on their 1,000-cubic-centimeter Honda, Suzuki and Yamaha motorcycles, the race leaders hit the bump at 185 miles an hour, their machines rearing up like prancing horses before settling back onto the asphalt and continuing down the hill at full throttle, engines shrieking. Near the bottom they pass a 30-miles-per-hour speed-limit sign at 195 m.p.h., then sweep through a right curve and out of sight. To see the Tourist Trophy, or T.T., races on this idyllically lovely but quirky island in the Irish Sea is to watch men operating at the edge of physics, and of reason. Daytona, Indianapolis, Le Mans, Monaco, Monza — all are better-known cathedrals of speed and risk. But nowhere are the extremes as great as on the Isle of Man, which has largely resisted a push for stricter safety measures that has all but eliminated true road racing elsewhere. Since the first Tourist Trophy race in 1907,  the island has maintained the tradition,  the motorcycles tearing then as now  through villages and towns on everyday public roads, achieving unimaginable speeds. Advertisement “This is the Super Bowl; this is the big show,” said Mark Miller, a graduate in aeronautical science from Long Beach, Calif., who was one of two Americans among the 600 riders competing in this year’s T.T. races, held each year in early June. Advertisement But with the tradition has come a grim record of deaths — 224 riders killed over the years in the Tourist Trophy races and another motorcycle event, the Manx Grand Prix, that runs on the same course in late summer. Dozens more deaths have occurred among race marshals, spectators and “civilian” riders who take to the course after the races on high-powered road bikes and try to emulate the racers’ daredevil feats. Despite a toll that mounts nearly every year, and a coroner’s report that identified major failings in track supervision after an accident last year that killed an English rider and two spectators, the Isle of Man clings proudly to the races. Control of the races rests with the island government, which values them as a way to increase tourism; this year, the 35,000 visitors, from all over Europe, spent an estimated $25 million. But the days when the races were an economic mainstay are gone, as a boom in banking, financial services and manufacturing has pushed the gross national product of the island, which until only 20 years ago was an outpost of poverty with a declining population, past $3 billion. The races’ enduring value these days, apart from the astonishing spectacle, seems to lie in their sustaining influence on the island’s psyche. In the races, many of the 80,000 inhabitants say, they find affirmation of the island’s do-it-my-way tradition, free from many of the timid constraints that they say have made a “nanny state” of modern Britain. Lying at roughly equal distances from England, Ireland and Scotland, the island has a population that is a mix of Viking, Scottish, Irish and English blood, and a 1,000-year-old parliament, the Tynwald, that islanders contend is the world’s longest-surviving democratic institution. Many of the top riders over the decades have come from Scots-Irish stock, with a tradition, bred by history, of defying imposed authority. “Over the decades, the Isle of Man has evolved with the T.T. races, and the races have evolved with the Isle of Man,” said Tony Brown, 58,  a local businessman and the island’s chief minister, as he greeted visitors in a hospitality tent near the pits. “It’s part of our culture.” Though it is only 65 miles by ferry from the British mainland and recognizes Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state, the island is not part of the United Kingdom. It is what is known in British constitutional parlance as a “self-governing dependent territory,” with freedom to fashion its own laws and way of life. Advertisement Like a range of other island territories around the world, it is a tax haven, attracting lucrative foreign banking and investment that have pushed living standards past those in mainland Britain. In recent years, the government has cracked down on tax evaders, money-launderers and other white-collar criminals, winning plaudits from senior American officials and getting the island off the United States Treasury’s list of “uncooperative tax havens.” The government now steers a judicious course, fostering the island’s allure to the wealthy while bolstering, through new tax and accounting rules, its claim to be a “reputable international citizen.” But caution is scarcely the hallmark of what happens here during race week and the week of practice that precedes it. Mr. Miller, who has had a long and successful career on the dedicated tracks used for motorcycle racing in the United States, was stunned when he arrived for his first race here two years ago and set out to learn the course. Starting in Douglas, the capital, the circuit has 226 corners on its way north to the town of Ramsey, then back to Douglas over the 2,036-foot-high Snaefell Mountain, which overlooks the island’s northern reaches. Every stretch is bordered by what the riders call “street furniture” — stone walls, curbs, pubs, houses, shops, telephone booths, mailboxes, lampposts, manhole covers, bumps and overhanging trees — little of it protected by air bags, hay bales or other safety features.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Along the way are thousands of spectators standing on grassy banks and behind stone walls, almost close enough at some points to reach out and touch the riders’ helmets as they rocket past. “It’s the scariest thing I’ve ever done,” Mr. Miller said after leaving this year’s main race, the Senior T.T., with an early mechanical failure on his Honda. “Going through those villages at 180 miles an hour, you’ve got the bike bucking like a bronco and just about tearing the handlebars out of your hands, and you’re fighting constantly to keep in full tuck” — down behind the fairing, the motorcycle’s aerodynamic shell. “It’s like taking a fighter jet down to tree level, popping the canopy, turning upside down, then going down to road level and touching your helmet on the pavement,” he said. “One mistake and it’s your life.” Thirty-two riders have died in the past 10 years, including a sidecar rider in 1999 who was one of three women to die while competing in the races. Nine riders died in 2005, the worst year in Tourist Trophy history. The government instituted an array of safety measures after the accident last year in which a rider fatally struck two people watching from an area on Snaefell that was prohibited to spectators though it was not marked as such. But Mr. Brown, the chief minister, took a laissez-faire attitude about the dangers to racers. “Everybody who competes in the T.T. knows the risks,” he said. “Nobody’s forced to ride.” This year there were no deaths among competing riders or spectators, but four among visitors speeding over Snaefell on their motorcycles after the races. Advertisement The races’ appeal reaches far beyond the culture of dyed-in-the-wool bikers. One enthusiast with memories of the races in the 1930s is Sir Frank Kermode, a native Manxman, as islanders are known, who is widely regarded as one of the world’s leading literary scholars. Now 88 and living in Cambridge, England, where he taught for years, he took time off from writing an article for The New York Review of Books to reminisce about his boyhood days in the 1930s, rising at 4:30 a.m. to get a good vantage point along the route, and to get autographs from the champion riders. “I was crazy about the races,” Sir Frank said. But the dangers were ever-present. “The riders,” he said, “used to get killed like flies.” Today, many racers say that dwelling on the risk of death would make it impossible to compete effectively. But others, including John McGuinness, an English rider who last year set the lap speed record — an average of 130.4 m.p.h. over the 37  3/4-mile circuit — take another view. This year, Mr. McGuinness won the Senior T.T., a six-lap event, for the fourth time in succession. Afterward, still in his racing leathers, he talked about the racing friends he had lost in fatal accidents on the island, including David Jefferies, a multiple winner, who was killed while practicing in 2003. Mr. McGuinness, who has won 14 Tourist Trophy  races, the second-highest total, said he thought about the hazards every moment during a race. “When you’re at 200 m.p.h. on a bike here, there’s no feeling like it anywhere in the world,” he said. But he said he thought of his lost friends every time he passed the places on the track where they were killed. “Every time I go through,” he said, “I ask them to look after me.” A version of this article appears in print on , on Page A6 of the New York edition with the headline: Mad Dash Of Bikers Leaves Island In Its Dust.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 