On Saturday night, Vanity Fair (the American edition) hosted a party at the Hotel du Cap-Eden-Roc, just outside Cannes, for a star-packed party that ran until 2 a.m.  Jennifer Lawrence arrived around midnight, just after the producers of “The Hunger Games” finished parading her in front of international buyers at a nearby event. Sylvester Stallone smoked a cigar in the hallway, checked himself out in the mirror and began nodding approvingly at his own reflection.  In the center of the main room was Justin Bieber, in a mustard-colored leather jacket and jeans.  He exchanged info with Jamal Al Sharif, the head of the Dubai Film Commission, who was promising all sorts of gifts if Mr. Bieber were to make an appearance. “I love Dubai,” Mr. Bieber said, his cellphone out.  Had any of the celebrities here — who included Julianne Moore, Edward Norton, Naomi Watts, Pamela Anderson, Harrison Ford and Russell Crowe — actually been to a movie this week?  It didn’t seem so.  “Oh no, I’m not going to the movies,” said Bryan Ferry, who was milling out by the deck, looking at yachts. “I’m staying in the hills.” Mr. Bieber added:  “I’m here to have fun. I’m here to socialize.”  And there was certainly no shortage of opportunities to socialize. The Cannes film festival has become one of the year’s most important marketing opportunities for luxury brands, a kind of mini-Superbowl for fashion. Scores of top fashion brands are here, doling out free airline tickets, hotels, clothes and even cash to top actresses to strut around in their products.  Last Thursday, Calvin Klein co-sponsored a Women in Film event at a private hillside villa attended by Ms. Moore, Ms. Watts, Lupita Nyong’o and Rooney Mara —  all of whom wore the company’s dresses and gamely posed for pictures.  On Friday, Vivienne Westwood helped Pamela Anderson kick off her new foundation. On Saturday, Giorgio Armani sponsored the Vanity Fair party. And on Sunday, Chopard took over a  suite at the Martinez Hotel on the Promenade de la Croissette for what was billed as an “intimate dinner.” Intimate, in this case, involved giant wall-mounted televisions that showed a loop of Uma Thurman and Cate Blanchett in the company’s wares. Cases of jewelry were lit from above like Porsches in a car dealership. Colin Firth and his wife, Livia, co-hosted. And during the meal, a businessman from Beijing happily told table mates that his custom-made Roberto Cavalli dinner jacket cost him 68,000 euros.  “It took 11 months to make,” he said.  A larger scale Chopard gala was scheduled for Monday.  Related coverage: Fashion and Beauty at Cannes Vanessa Friedman writes about fashion-related news, from the latest runway shows and trends to an inside look into the design process. Contributors include Alexandra Jacobs, Matthew Schneier, John Koblin and Ruth La Ferla.     On the Runway’s daily features can now be found at the blog’s topics page, as well as at the Styles home page.Read more…     The designer of the new Whitney Museum and the fashion house have created a handbag.Read more…     They reviewed their supply chains before other fashion sectors, use techno fabrics and know that their target customer cares about the environment. All that adds up to high rankings on sustainability indexes.Read more…     The Pantone company creates a new shade linked to the summer’s “Despicable Me” spinoff, and all ready for the new royal baby. Read more…     He is the only creative director on Time magazine’s “100 Most Influential People” list.Read more… Follow Advertisement 