  An Internet company with a kooky name, no profits and fresh from a splashy Super Bowl ad is getting ready to go public. Good luck, says TheStreet.com. TheStreet.com’s Jonathan Berr on Tuesday points out that Go Daddy, a registrar of Internet domains, filed for an intial public offering of stock in May. The company has been around for awhile (a still shot from its risque 2005 Superbowl commercial is above)  but it hasn’t shown an annual profit in the nine years of its existence. It works in a highly competitive environment.  It is, according to TheStreet.com, a lot like Vonage, the Internet-based phone service whose recent I.P.O. sank out of the gate and has since been the target of lawsuits and heaps of derision.  TheStreet.com’s comparison with Vonage — the worst-performing I.P.O. so far this year — is bound to irritate underwriters led byLehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch as they try to drum up interest in Go Daddy’s offering. In its preliminary prospectus, the company said it hoped to raise as much as $200 million. Go to Article from TheStreet.com » Comments are no longer being accepted. Hmm, so GoDaddy wants to go public eh? First they should explain the nine years of operation without profit. Their prices maybe great, i even host my own personal site and email with them, but doing business with and buying shares for capital gain are two different things. These Investment banks will do just about anything to fool investors into thinking the offerings are great. You ask how so? Well they will drum up excitment, do fabulous PR work, invite all their associates to attend the roadshows, just to help cover the tip of the iceberg. But thanks to Vonage, the public is not stupid! You can’t just dump your worthless shares on us just to rid of your debt or pay off your originial investors!  Yaser //equityinvestmentideas.blogspot.com Wow. where to start ?  Hosting hundreds or thousands of fake, fraud websites and doing nothing to limit the problem: ” As a hosting provider, we cannot be expected to judge the alleged illegal activities you have mentioned. However, we are more than happy to quickly comply with any court-issued order, or official request by law enforcement (whose burden it is to determine the existence of illegal activities). We regularly work with courts and law enforcement from the local to the international level. As a result, we would recommend you seek an injunction from a court as the most efficient way to handle this situation. ” Its like the Bank saying, yes we cashed fake checks on your account, now go complain to somebody that cares. IMHO This is not a company that has a future. Advertisement 