Advertisement By ALEX YANNISAUG. 8, 2004  Windsong's Legacy used his speed down the stretch after going three-wide shortly beyond the last turn to capture the $1 million Hambletonian on Saturday at the Meadowlands. Driven and trained by Trond Smedshammer of Norway, Windsong's Legacy finished a length ahead of Cantab Hall in the 79th running of the Hambletonian, the most prestigious event in harness racing. A son of Cornway Hall, Windsong's Legacy trotted the mile in 1:54.1 and paid $11 on a $2 bet to win before a crowd of 30,117. ''This is the biggest win in my career,'' said Smedshammer, who has been competing at the Meadowlands since 1989. ''I knew he was going to give me a good run in the stretch.'' Advertisement Smedshammer became the third driver-trainer to win the Hambletonian since 1983. Cash Hall, driven by John Campbell, the winner of a record five Hambletonians, was third, ahead of Coventry and Justice Hall. The favorite, Tom Ridge, named after the secretary of homeland security, was in the lead until he lost ground at the start of the last turn. He faded down the stretch and finished eighth in the field of 10.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Windsong's Legacy is eligible for the Triple Crown for trotters. The other two legs are the Yonkers Trot and the Kentucky Futurity. The Yonkers Trot has been moved to Hawthorne Race Course in Chicago this year because Yonkers Raceway is being renovated. The Yonkers Trot will be staged Aug. 28, and the third leg will be Oct. 9 in Lexington, Ky. The last horse to capture the Triple Crown was Superbowl, in 1972. Advertisement The $500,000 Hambletonian Oaks, for 3-year-old fillies, produced a big upset. Peaceful Way, the favorite, fell behind after the last turn and broke stride in the stretch, finishing seventh in the field of 10. She also interfered near the finish line and was placed last. ''She just wasn't herself,'' said Campbell, her driver. ''She just couldn't keep her gait.'' Silver Springs, driven by George Brennan, was the beneficiary of Peaceful Way's misfortunes. She took over down the stretch and beat out Housethatruthbuilt. It was only the second victory in seven starts this season for Silver Springs, who paid $37 on a $2 bet to win. Another upset occurred in the $310,000 Mistletoe Shalee for 3-year-old pacing fillies. The overwhelming favorite, Rainbow Blue, who had won all of her 16 starts, broke stride shortly after the start and finished last. Kikikatie, with David Miller driving, posted her fourth victory in five starts this season. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 