Twitter users only really have one kind of filter: people. You follow someone, or you un-follow them. Sure, you can search the aggregate of the service, but that is only useful to find larger pieces of information. Or you can try to take the time to create a list, but who wants to create and organize a list for each news event you are interested in? These features are mostly unusable due to their limitations, and, as a result, there is no way to filter out current conversations or topics that are taking place within the social network that you really do not care about. As Twitter has grown, its lack of filters are starting to become a hindrance for some people. The frustration hit a boiling point for me a few weeks ago when many of my friends and colleagues traipsed off to Austin, Tex., to go to the interactive portion of the South by Southwest Music and Media Conference and Festival.  I’ve never been to SXSW, and haven’t really had an urge to go; from what I hear, it’s a revelry of technology, parties and networking, all of which I can experience in New York. But each year of the conference, when I start up Twitter, I am forced to attend SXSW through the people there who message about which conference session they are attending or how many people they were sharing a barbecued rib with. This year I also had to witness every single location-based check-in. To some readers, this might not be a big deal; just turn off the service for the weekend and go about your daily life, you might say. But Twitter has become my fire hose for information. I use it to find and share news stories, see what my friends and co-workers are reading, and find the best of the Web at that moment in time. Twitter is the first Web site I open each morning to check the news; without it,  I’m left to cull for myself, an arduous and overwhelming task given the volume of information flooding the Internet. I’m guessing that for many Twitter users, the introduction of Apple’s iPad this weekend was similarly excruciating. Almost everyone I follow on Twitter who bought an iPad commented about their purchase. And they didn’t just talk about the actual transaction at the Apple store, but instead announced every banal moment in the experience — from the number of people in line with them, to each application they purchased. For me, it was incredibly entertaining; for many, I’m sure it wasn’t. And the same applies to the Superbowl, Oscars, Michael Jackson’s death and the Tiger Woods scandal. Some people just aren’t interested, yet if you want to use Twitter, you can’t look away — you are forced to rubberneck. As Twitter’s users have multiplied, the service is processing more than 50 million messages a day, compared with 5,000 a day in 2007. If this trend continues, as Twitter predicts, the service will likely become noisier and less useful in certain settings. Adding a simple mechanism and smart filters that could easily be enabled or disabled would make the service useful all the time, even during the Superbowl. Follow Advertisement 