New York Times reporters and editors, including Judy Battista, Greg Bishop, Tom Jolly and Justin Sablich,  provided live analysis from Miami Gardens, Fla., of Super Bowl XLIV between the Colts and the Saints.  Richard Sandomir, contributing from New York,  added commentary on the CBS telecast.  The Media Decoder blog  commented on the Super Bowl ads here.   Update | 10:39 p.m. Tracy Porter makes his interception sound easy. He said he recognized the play and “I just jumped the route.” Porter was prepared for his big moment: He has “SB” cut on the left side of his head, the Lombardi Trophy cut on the left side of his head and the Superdome cut in the back. Maybe he should have had “MVP” cut onto the top since he has now made key interceptions in consecutive games against Brett Favre and Peyton Manning. — Tom Jolly Update | 10:35 p.m. Nate Silver looks ahead, via Twitter: “As always, most of the credit goes to the talent on the field, but this may do for football statistics what Red Sox ’04 did for baseball.” Update | 10:25 p.m. Miles, a commenter on The Fifth Down, asks: “Can we now stop all the talk ’bout Peyton Manning being the best ever. Joe Montana never lost a superbowl!”  Coming into the Super Bowl, William C. Rhoden certainly thought Manning’s legacy had been overstated.  But people in New Orleans aren’t thinking about Manning’s legacy right now. Bourbon Street is alive, which you can see on various Web cams.   Update | 10:24 p.m. “Four years ago, who ever would’ve thought this would happen,” Drew Brees said, recalling that much of New Orleans was under water, that the Super Dome was a mess and that the team was playing games in San Antonio. He said the Saints’ comeback against the Colts was symbolic of how the Gulf Coast had come back from Katrina.  — Tom Jolly Update | 10:22 p.m. In his postgame news conference Manning says he gives the Saints “all the credit.”  He had little to say about Porter’s interception: “He made a good play. He made a heck of a play. That’s all I can say.” On his way from the stadium to the news conference tent, he gave his mother, Olivia, a hug and a kiss and then met Jeff Saturday, whom he embraced in a bear hug. — Tom Jolly Update | 10:03 p.m. Drew Brees was named the game’s most valuable player. No surprise there.  Update | 10:01 p.m. With the dual stories of New Orleans’s recovery from Hurricane Katrina and the Saints’ long wait to play in the Super Bowl, CBS should have done more than have two quick shots of Bourbon Street after the men of “Who Dat?” beat the Colts. The first postgame reaction shot (of a few seconds) came nearly a minute after time ran out on Indianapolis. Reaction shots of postgame celebrations of other cities are almost irrelevant, but to give New Orleans such shabby treatment was surprising — even more so after Jim Nantz recited the names of a half dozen streets and parts of the city. One more quick shot of Bourbon Street came as CBS went to a commercial break. — Richard Sandomir Update | 9:56 p.m. Give the Saints tremendous credit. This was no fluke: They deserved to win. Brees picked apart the Colts’ defense, using the death by a thousand cuts approach, with short passes and the occasional run wearing down the Colts’ defense and then the Saints’ defense coming in for the kill, as it did so many times this season — this time with Tracy Porter picking off Peyton Manning and returning the interception for a touchdown. It was the formula that worked all year for the Saints and completely appropriate that it would represent the crowning moment for them. — Tom Jolly  Update | 9:52 p.m. It’s a big day for New Orleans, and an especially big one for Tracy Porter, who along with Marlon Favorite and three other Saints, is from Louisiana. As William C. Rhoden wrote last week: “Four members of the National Football Conference champion Saints are Louisiana natives. Cornerback Randall Gay is from Brusly, Favorite is from Gretna, wide receiver Devery Henderson is from Opelousas and Porter, a cornerback, is from Port Allen.” Update | 9:47 p.m. The Saints are Super Bowl champions and will bring the title back to New Orleans, which is surely ready for a raucous celebration. Tracy Porter’s 74-yard interception return for a touchdown sealed the victory for the Saints, but Drew Brees was the star throughout. He finished 32 of 39 passing for 288 yards, 2 touchdowns and no interceptions. The 32 completions ties a Super Bowl record held by Tom Brady.  Update | 9:45 p.m. The Saints stop the Colts on downs at the Saints’ 5 and New Orleans is going to celebrate its first Super Bowl victory and first major professional sports championship of any kind. Our Web producer Justin Sablich points out that I am now 0-2 in my Super Bowl point-counterpoint debates with Carl Nelson since I picked the Cardinals to beat the Steelers and the Colts to beat the Saints. At least the Cardinals covered the point spread. — Tom Jolly Update | 9:39 p.m. From Nate Silver on Twitter, again (who referred to Sean Payton as a “stathead heartthrob”):  However this turns out, we’ve been on a great run of very exciting Super Bowls. 7 of the last 11 games have been competitive, 4-5 legendary. Update | 9:35 p.m. O.K., now it’s officially turned into a Saints’ home game, Colts fans are just stunned. It’s going to make it that much tougher for Manning to muster up anything late in the fourth quarter. — Justin Sablich Update | 9:33 p.m. It’ll be interesting to hear that play explained after the game. Manning threw it right to Tracy Porter, but he had to have thought Reggie Wayne was going to cut toward the middle. Instead, Wayne stopped and Porter had clear sailing, 74 yards to the end zone and “Who Dat” chants are echoing around the stadium. — Tom Jolly Update | 9:32 p.m. Tracy Porter’s 74-yard interception return puts the Saints up, 31-17. Porter was also the player who picked off Brett Favre to seal the N.F.C. championship game victory against Minnesota.  Update | 9:29 p.m. A sign of how tight the defenses have played: The longest plays tonight have been 27-yard pass receptions by Dallas Clark and Marques Colston. Only one other play has gone for more than 19 yards: a 26-yard run by Addai. — Tom Jolly Update | 9:27 p.m. From The Boston Globe, via Twitter: “Freeney is walking off the field, into locker room.”  Update | 9:24 p.m. With Drew Brees killing the Colts with short passes, Simms summarized the plight for the Indianapolis defense this way: “They’re used to their pass rush getting to the quarterback, but they keep seeing one look after another, another formation, another short pass, so you get to where you react, you’re not attacking. And Drew Brees is right on time with those throws.” During the drive that put New Orleans ahead, Brees had complete passes of, in order, 12, 5, 6, 8, 8, 6, 9 and 2 yards (the touchdown to Jeremy Shockey). — Richard Sandomir Update | 9:23 p.m. Whoa … I think everyone in the stadium was shocked by the 2-point reversal. Here, it didn’t look like Moore was ever in, but now that they’re showing the replay it’s clear he was. Even without the reversal on the conversion ruling, that drive was the kind that wins games: Nine plays, 59 yards, 7 for 7 passing and the longest play in the drive is the first, a 12-yard run by Reggie Bush. Both teams have missed scoring changes, with the Saints leaving points on the field after failing on fourth down in the second quarter and Stover missing that field goal moments ago. More and more this looks like a game that could come down to the last possession, or overtime. Can Manning do something memorable, or is this the Saints’ year? — Tom Jolly  Update | 9:20 p.m. Was it right to go for 2? Even the old-school chart that Dick Vermeil created said you go for it. New thinking would also agree … Judy Battista broke down the whole issue last week. Update | 9:10 p.m. Stover’s missed field goal wastes the Colts’ successful gamble on fourth-and-2. I thought the fourth quarter would be an enormous challenge for the Saints’ defense, because the Colts’ up-tempo attack tends to wear down opponents and they then pull away in the final minutes. But the Saints’ offense has been an enormous help by hanging onto the ball for extended periods, even if they have only been able to score one touchdown. Since the first quarter, the Saints have had the ball for more than 20 minutes while the Colts have had it for just over 10. — Tom Jolly  Update | 9:09 p.m. Matt Stover’s wayard 51-yard field-goal attempt is just the latest in a season filled with them. Before the playoffs, Judy Battista looked at kickers’ sudden inaccuracy this season. Now the Saints have the ball in Colts territory with a chance to take the lead.  Update | 9:00 p.m. From Aaron Schatz of Football Outsiders, via Twitter: All these “Addai is great” tweets. Have you people not seen the Saints run defense this year?   Update | 8:57 p.m. CBS did everything right in the way it covered the Saints’ on-side kick to start the second half — the audio of the frantic scene was especially good. Back in Super Bowl I, a very different kickoff situation occurred. NBC’s Charlie Jones’s interview with Bob Hope went so long that the network went to a commercial and missed the kickoff. CBS was also covering the game but it showed the kickoff. Incredibly, it was redone. — Richard Sandomir Update | 8:56 p.m. This is evolving into the offensive battle that was predicted — sort of. The catch is that the Saints are sputtering past midfield and it’s becoming a showcase for Garrett Hartley, who now has three field goals, from 46, 44 and 47 yards. So the Saints have scored four times to the Colts’ three, but getting 3 points on 3 of those 4 scoring drives doesn’t seem like a winning formula against Manning. — Tom Jolly Update | 8:53 p.m. Saints kicker Garrett Hartley, who just made a 47-yard field goal to pull New Orleans within 17-16, is an early candidate for the game’s most valuable player, along with Dallas Clark and Joseph Addai of the Colts. That could change if a Saints defender forces a turnover. On the Colts’ kickoff return, Irsay buries his head in his hands in his head. Indianapolis take over on their own 11. How many more long drives does Manning have in him? — William C. Rhoden Update | 8:48 p.m. Back to Nate Silver, who understands the value of knowing probabilities. He has already posted an article about Sean Payton’s decision to go for the touchdown on fourth down. Silver’s take? It was the right call.  Update | 8:44 p.m. And … that’s an answer. Impressive 89-yard drive by the Colts, with Manning going to the no-huddle attack and driving Indianapolis 76 yards. He completed 5 of 6 passes and it looks more and more like the Colts put Adrian Peterson in Addai’s uniform. Whoever is wearing No. 29 gained 20 more yards on that drive and now has 79 through two-and-a-half quarters, a yard under his season high for a complete game. — Tom Jolly Update | 8:43 p.m. Joseph Addai, who bounced off several Saints defenders on his way to the end zone moments ago, has 79 yards rushing. Two more and he will surpass his high game for rushing this season (80 yards versus the Jets in the A.F.C. championship).  Update | 8:42 p.m. The Saints have been able to move the ball well, but with no help from their running game. They have just 29 yards on the ground. But so far, Brees has been able to work around it. Something to keep in mind as they start this drive. — Justin Sablich Update | 8:40 p.m. Happy times have returned to the Colts luxury box. The Colts score on Joseph Addai’s tough 4-yard run to take a 17-13 lead. In the next booth over, Jim Irsay is up, slapping high-fives again. — William C. Rhoden  Update | 8:36 p.m. From Greg Bishop, via Twitter:  Beautiful throw from #Colts QB Peyton Manning to TE Dallas Clark. Looked effortless, in the smallest window.  The Colts are driving deep in Saints territory.  Update | 8:32 p.m. Richard Sandomir has a last thought on the halftime show: I don’t profess to be a musical expert, but I am an authority on baldness. I am bald and wrote “Bald Like Me.” So, I wonder, what is it in the DNA or lifestyle of aging (and ancient) rock stars that so many still have lots of hair? Consider these recent rockin’ half-time geezers: Roger Daltrey of The Who’s got hair (much too much for his age). Pete Townsend’s got some but not a lot (he wore a hat tonight at the Super Bowl). But look at Paul McCartney, Bruce Springsteen, Tom Petty, Prince and Bono: all have lots of hair. Bono’s U2 teammate, the Edge, is bald, thanks goodness. And there aren’t a lot of bald football announcers, either. Update | 8:30 p.m. After looking so uncertain in the first quarter, the Saints are back on their game, and in the lead by 13-10, with Brees firing short passes all over the field and Devery Henderson and Thomas cutting through the Colts’ defense for extra yardage. Just like that, the onus is on Manning to answer. — Tom Jolly Update | 8:29 p.m. Who was that who scored? I meant, “Who Dat?” (It was Pierre Thomas on a 16-yard pass play from Drew Brees) Sun Life Stadium is officially jumping and the Saints lead, 13-10, with 11:41 to go in the third quarter. — William C. Rhoden  Update | 8:27 p.m. Sean Payton is leaving nothing on the table. That failed attempt on fourth down didn’t deter him from trying an onside kick to start the second half and it worked. Given the Colts’ propensity for scoring to start the second half, the gamble was reminiscent of Bill Belichick’s decision to go for it on fourth down against the Colts deep in the Patriots’ own territory earlier this season. You’ve got to figure the Colts will score points; the trick is getting enough extra possessions to stay with them. And that’s just what Payton did. — Tom Jolly Update | 8:25 p.m. The Saints certainly didn’t get the ball without a fight after that onside kick. So what happens at the bottom of the pile? Sports Illustrated had an entertaining read a few years ago. Update | 8:24 p.m. Wow! First major break for New Orleans. First, the Saints go for it on fourth-and goal in the waning moments of the first half and get stuff. Now, they recover an on-side kick to start the second half. — William C. Rhoden Update | 8:23 p.m. Let’s see if CBS”s Bill Cowher is right — that the Saints defensive coordinator Gregg Williams will come out of halftime with some sort of new defensive scheme that he will spring on Peyton Manning in the second half. Of course Cowher doesn’t have to be correct. He’s a coach-turned-studio analyst. But as a Super Bowl-winning coach with the Steelers, you want him to be able to read Williams’s mind and correctly predict that he will throw something at Manning that he didn’t want to show during the first two quarters. — Richard Sandomir Update | 8:20 p.m. They set up the big stage for The Who in 10 minutes. It is circular, with green streams of light radiating out from the middle. Pete Townshend is wearing shades and a hat. Roger Daltrey is wearing a black sport coat with wide white vertical stripes. They open with a short bit of “Pinball Wizard.” Next is a longer take of “Baba O’Riley.” Those who find the Who pretentious are allowed to voice that thought during this one, but it’s kind of nice to see Daltrey on the harmonica in a nice instrumental segment. Now, they segue to “Who Are You?” with the words of the title on the signboard around the stadium. Sure hope they do some really old and cool tunes like “The Kids Are All Right.” Or maybe “Can’t Explain.” But, no, alas, it’s “See Me, Feel Me . . . ” from “Tommy.”  Even those of us who like the Who a lot found this rock opera to be a bit much. Thankfully, they only nod in its direction for a few bars before jumping into a fireworks-laden up-tempo anthem “Won’t Get Fooled Again.” Karen Crouse, sitting next to me, assures me it is her favorite and she’s moving and grooving to it. “Just like yesterday! And I get on my knees and pray!” (“Daltrey’s turning into Gene Wilder!” Karen said.)  Now, we’re at the two-minute warning of the halftime show. Will they do one more song or this is it? No, I think that’s it. “Meet the new boss, same as the old boss!” And it’s over. Fireworks! Cheers! Back to football. — Joe Lapointe Update | 8:19 p.m. Here is one less-than-stellar review for the halftime show. From Tyler Kepner, the Times’s national baseball writer, via Twitter: People rip MLB for a lot of things, but they got Jay-Z and Alicia Keys to perform at the World Series. The Who’s a bit past their prime, no? Update | 8:16 p.m. Over at pro-football-reference.com, Neil Paine drilled down into the numbers before the game. “If anything, the odds should be leaning towards New Orleans.” (thanks to footballoutsiders.com). Update | 8:15 p.m. Share your thoughts on the halftime performance by The Who.  Update | 8:13 p.m. I walked in the stadium this afternoon with Dan Rooney, the United States ambassador to Ireland. Rooney is headed back to Ireland later this week. He said he spent his days entertaining and hosting dignitaries. He also said he wasn’t happy with the way some teams have been taking liberties with the Rooney Rule. As we reached the entrance a young man checked Rooney’s credential and said “Hmmm, Steelers.” Informed that the elderly man with the short, white hair owned the Steelers, the young man recoiled and said “Really?!” — William C. Rhoden Update | 8:02 p.m. Over at Media Decoder, we’re asking people for their favorite Super Bowl commercial so far. Share your thoughts. Update | 7:57 p.m. And now, the dreaded halftime show.  “The Who.” “Who?” “The Who.” “No, I mean who?” “The Who.” Forget it. — William C. Rhoden Update | 7:53 p.m. What, it took the Saints two minutes of a timeout to plan a running play like that? You would think the Saints would try for a field goal but no. After yet another long time to think during a timeout, Coach Payton calls for another run on fourth down and it fails. So the Saints come out of a great scoring chance with nothing — not even a field goal. Sometimes, a coach can out-coach himself. Won’t get fooled again? After the Colts fail to get a first down, there is another timeout with 46 seconds left. This could have been a Reggie Bush moment.  Bush takes it at the 44 of the Saints but, no, not much. His return went for five yards. This game could use a Bush moment. Thirty-five seconds left in the half. Brees passes — complete. They move it down to the 33 of the Colts. I’m looking out at the field for Bush. He runs a pass pattern short but he’s just a decoy. Completion moves the ball to the 27 of the Colts. Another timeout. Eleven seconds left. Hey, Payton! Hey, Brees! What about Reggie! Reggie lines up left, pass to Reggie! Out of bounds. Short gain. Five seconds left after a short gain. Field-goal attempt from 44 yards. Spotted. Booted. Up and good!  And it’s 10-6 at the end of the half, Colts lead.  Bring on The Who! — Joe Lapointe Update | 7:53 p.m.  When the Saints’ Mike Bell slipped on the turf on a third-and-1 play late in the second quarter, Phil Simms insisted that it occurred because of his sharp cutting. But enough players have slipped on the grass at Sun Life Stadium for CBS’s sideline reporters, Steve Tasker and Solomon Wilcots, to investigate whether the turf is slippery or whether there are other reasons for the players falling without being hit. — Richard Sandomir Update | 7:51 p.m. Here’s what I don’t understand. If the biggest games are won by the best players, and the Saints’ best player is quarterback Drew Brees, and the Saints are driving, down only, 10-3, and near the goal line, why would a coach take the ball out of Brees’s hands? That’s exactly what Sean Payton did. He handed the ball to Pierre Thomas on second down, to Mike Bell on third down and to Thomas again on fourth down. Why? The Colts ran off the field after that stop like they had won the football game. And maybe, just maybe, they already had. I like the call to go for it on fourth down. But, and this is just one opinion, Brees should have factored in the outcome. — Greg Bishop Update | 7:48 p.m. Even though the Colts held at the 1, that Saints drive showed Brees at his patient, crafty best. The Colts safeties have been squeezing the middle of the field and rather than forcing passes into that area, Brees has been dumping short passes into the flat, relying on his receivers to turn them into gains in the open field. Lance Moore did just that on a pass to the left that he caught just past the line of scrimmage and turned into a 21-yard gain. When the Colts adjusted and shifted safety Melvin Bullitt toward the flat, Brees hit Colston for 27 yards along the right hash marks. Strange then, that the Saints elected to run the ball on third and fourth down from the 1. The Saints held the ball for 6 minutes 45 seconds and although they came away with no points, they may have gained some game-plan confidence. — Tom Jolly Update | 7:46 p.m. Very nice spot by Jim Nantz. With New Orleans facing a second-and-17 on the Colts’ 30, Nantz saw something wrong. “Colston in a slot to the right,” he said, and paused slightly, then said, “left unattended, and there he is, Colston, breaking a tackle, down to the 3. And there a mixup in the Colts defense. He was just off on a wing to the right and nobody was on him.” The 27-yard pass play extended the Saints’ drive, which ended without a score when the Colts’ defense stopped New Orleans on a fourth-and-1 running play. — Richard Sandomir  Update | 7:45 p.m. Jim Irsay, in the next box, jumps up and pumps fist as the Colts hold by stopping Pierre Thomas short of the end zone. William C. Rhoden Update | 7:43 p.m. The Saints were just stuffed on a fourth-and-goal from the 1. Was it the right call to go for it with less than two minutes left in the half? Share your thoughts.  Update | 7:41 p.m. Nate Silver, of baseball stats fame and now uncannily accurate political seer, made an observation before the game, via Twitter: Throw out Weeks 16, 17 and count playoffs: Colts have scored 444 points & allowed 268 (+176); Saints have scored 559, allowed 340 (+219). Silver’s advice: take the points. Update | 7:37 p.m. Oh my. Lance Moore of the Saints was as open as a receiver ever gets. The Saints are back on our end of the field, first-and-10 at the 23. But they lose seven on a reverse. They tried one last game against Minnesota and lost one yard on a double reverse to Reggie Bush. But Coltson gets 27 on a pass reception and here are the Saints on the 3-yard line right down in front of us. I’m looking out over the backs of the Colts defenders. I see them flow to the ball on a pass that gains nothing. They come out of the huddle with three wideouts to the left, then move one to the right, then a flag falls for illegal procedure as a lineman jumped. You sort of get the feeling they are out smarting themselves. Now, three wideouts left again, motion right, a running play to Pierre Thomas down to the 1. All that showing of pass and that motion for a running play. Pivotal moment here. Two-minute warning. And we’ll be back, right after this. — Joe Lapointe Update | 7:32 p.m. They just showed a promo for The Who, the halftime entertainment. Yeah, I’m geeked for it. I’ll admit it. Maybe not as geeked as Judy Battista was last year for Bruce Springsteen, but pretty geeked nonetheless. Got to walk with Roger Daltrey the other day after the news conference. He is, shall I say it, a fellow man of average height. Nice to know that. Daltrey was much wittier and friendlier than Pete Townshend. As Homer Simpson once said after meeting Paul McCartney: “Rock stars. Is there anything they don’t know?” — Joe Lapointe Update | 7:30 p.m. I have a bird’s-eye view of the Colts owner and C.E.O. Jim Irsay, who is sitting three feet away in a luxury box. Irsay was up giving high-fives in the first quarter as the Colts put up 10 points. Things have been subdued in the Irsay box thus far in the second quarter. — William C. Rhoden Update | 7:27 p.m. Some of us on Team Times are sitting in the middle deck of the grandstands, in the corner of the end zone, looking over Peyton Manning’s right shoulder as he runs this drive out of our end in the middle of the second quarter. You find yourself trying to read his mind and see things through his eyes as he waits for the snap and surveys the defense. Can you see what he sees? Oh! I just saw Pierre Garcon get open and then drop a pass. He was so open I could have thrown it to him from my seat here in Row 7 of Section 249. And now the Colts punt and the Saints will come back this way. It’s chilly here, for Florida. My fingers are stiff from the air. But this is no complaint.  This is a wonderful way to make a living. — Joe Lapointe Update | 7:25 p.m. The Saints defense has been opportunistic this season, stripping the ball, playing for turnovers, including interceptions. Darren Sharper had nine interceptions and ran back three for touchdowns. A play like that would electrify this game. Of course, it is not easy to do such things against Peyton Manning. — Joe Lapointe Update | 7:22 p.m. If you’re a Saints fan and you’re looking for some signs of hope, here’s one: Last year, the Steelers totally dominated the Cardinals in the first quarter, outgaining them 140 yards to 13 and taking a 10-0 lead early in the second quarter. The Cardinals got it together in the second quarter and ended up with 407 total yards. Of course, in the end, the Steelers won, so maybe that’s not such a great sign after all. — Tom Jolly Update | 7:19 p.m. Dwight Freeney’s sack of Drew Brees on third-and-3 was emphatic — a one-handed fling to the ground. It was the sort of play that leaves a lingering impression. The Saints were lucky to get 3 points out of the drive, which ended with Garrett Hartley’s 46-yard field goal to make the score 10-3. Wonder if the Saints will be thinking about Freeney on the next drive? His injury — would he play or not? — was the biggest football-related issue of the week. — Joe Lapointe  Update | 7:18 p.m. Dwight Freeney just had his first impact play of the game, sacking Drew Brees. Here’s Judy Battista’s take:  Wow — Freeney. What power. One handed sack. So much for that ankle problem. That was an insane sack. Update | 7:14 p.m. The first quarter was filled with quickly-rendered and smart analysis by CBS’s Phil Simms. Early on, he has seen his view vindicated that the Colts, who are ranked last in the league in rushing, would be able to run on the Saints.  Late in the first quarter, on a Colts drive that started on their own 4-yard line, Joseph Addai ran for 26 yards. And Simms said: “The Saints had to know this play was coming.” He said that New Orleans was well aware that in short-yardage situations, Indianapolis “loves the inside trap and that’s what it was — and how about that? Joseph Addai, the blocking’s great upfront, and he makes Sharper miss.” — Richard Sandomir Update | 7:13 p.m. The Colts’ 96-yard touchdown drive tied for the longest in Super Bowl history and Peyton Manning didn’t even look like he was working all that hard. The Colts got the benefit of a 26-yard Joseph Addai run up the middle on third-and-1 from midfield, but Manning was pinpoint perfect in the first quarter. The Colts have 154 yards in the first half and the real shocker is their balance. They had 66 yards rushing and 88 passing and are 4 of 5 on third down. Worst of all for the Saints: they held the ball for 10:29. And Gregg Williams’ prediction that they would put some “remember me” hits on Manning? Not even close. — Judy Battista Update | 7:11 p.m. Joseph Addai already has run for 58 yards against the Saints — that wasn’t supposed to happen. His season-high was 80 yards rushing in the A.F.C. championship game against the Jets and even the Colts acknowledged that they were mystified about the shortcomings of their running game. If Addai keeps eating up yardage on the ground, it’s going to be that much more difficult for the Saints to pressure Manning, something they’re still not succeeding in doing. — Tom Jolly Update | 7:10 p.m. The first quarter belonged to the Colts. They had a 21-10 advantage in plays, a 154-36 advantage in total yards and, of course, a 10-0 advantage on the scoreboard.  Update | 7:05 p.m. The Colts took a 10-0 lead on a 19-yard touchdown pass from Manning to Pierre Garcon, prompting this reaction from Judy Battista on Twitter:  Wow. 96 yard drive like it was nothing. Manning is pinpoint perfect.  She also reports that the Colts owner Jim Irsay is no longer “so fidgety.”  Update | 6:59 p.m. A little surprising that the Saints’ offense seems a bit out of kilter. Drew Brees is getting plenty of time, but the Saints went three-and-out on their first possession and Brees overthrew Marques Colston on a deep pass when Colston was open. On their second series, they moved the ball better and Colston dropped a pass that could have resulted in a big play and Brees is only 3 of 7 so far. — Tom Jolly Update | 6:57 p.m. Peyton Manning isn’t the only one who moves around a lot before plays, at least according to Judy Battista:  Jim Irsay in the box right next to me. He’s pretty fidgety. Update | 6:56 p.m. A clarification on Adam Vinatieri. He is on the Colts’ 53-man roster, but is inactive for tonight’s game and can’t play. It’s Stover Time in Indianapolis! Update | 6:54 p.m. The Saints look a bit tentative on offense early, which is exactly how they looked early against Minnesota in the National Football Conference championship game as well. I don’t think it will last all day. But Drew Brees needs a bit more help. On the Saints’ second drive, he threw twice to receiver Marques Colston, and both times, it appeared Colston had a good chance or better of catching a pass. The first, he flat out dropped. The second, he could not come up with while fighting with safety Melvin Bullitt for position. Either way, if the Saints are going to beat Manning and the Colts, they need to score. And dropping passes isn’t going to do it. Brees is so far 3 of 7 for 27 yards, most on a long gain by running back Reggie Bush. — Greg Bishop  Update | 6:51 p.m. Matt Stover’s time in the spotlight continues. Here’s an interesting tweet from Sports Illustrated’s Peter King: Amazing thing. Vinatieri’s on the 53-man roster. And Stover’s kicking. Matt Stover has made the best clutch kicker of our time obsolete. Update | 6:49 p.m. Greg Bishop, via Twitter: Colts kicker Matt Stover is the oldest player in the NFL. And also the first person to score in Super Bowl XLIV. Update | 6:47 p.m. The Saints talked all week about delivering “remember me” hits to quarterback Peyton Manning, as they did to Kurt Warner and Brett Favre in their two playoff victories, but they didn’t lay a “remember me” finger on Manning on the Colts’ first possession. Manning completed 6 of 8 passes — and one of the misfires could have been caught – on the 58-yard drive that resulted in a 38-yard field goal by Matt Stover and a 3-0 Colts lead. — Tom Jolly  Update | 6:45 p.m. Tom Jolly, via Twitter: Not sure if Saints fans are here in greater numbers, but it’s clear they’re louder — so far.  Update | 6:18 p.m. | From Tom Jolly One of the iconic images of football is of linemen preparing to square off, facemask to facemask, with one hand dug into the turf in a three-point stance, but Commissioner Roger Goodell said on Sunday that it was conceivable such showdowns could be prohibited. Goodell told Bob Schieffer on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that the league was continuing to assess ways to make the game safer, especially in reducing head injuries and, in response to a question from Schieffer, said, “You’ll see a lot of players that never get down in the three-point stance, so it’s possible that that would happen.” — Sam from Roanoke, Va. The interview took place on the field at Sun Life Stadium, where Super Bowl XLIV was to be played Sunday night and Goodell made a point of saying that the league itself had commissioned the study that found that former football players were more susceptible to dementia than the ordinary population, though he later said it had limitations because it was a phone survey rather than a medical study. Nonetheless, he said: “It’s caused us to say, let’s go back and see if there is something here that we need to understand better … For many years the culture had been quite different — that concussions weren’t serious injuries. I think we have changed that culture and made sure that people understand they are serious and they can have serious consequences if they’re not treated properly; especially if they’re not treated properly. “We have changed the game and we have changed the culture. And I think the rules changes that we’ve made over the last several years have made the game safer for our players. We need to continue to find new ways. There are techniques that are in the game that we think can lead to more serious injuries. Whether they are head injuries, the high hits to the head, we’ve done a lot of changes to defenseless receivers to make sure that players that are in the position are not subject to hits that can cause serious injuries.” Update | 5:56 p.m. | From Justin Sablich There might not be as much of a home-crowd advantage for the Saints as I originally thought. The crowd is a lot more evenly split than I expected. Unless some last-minute Saints tailgaters fill in the remaining seats, it’s looking pretty even right now.  Update | 5:48 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir CBS Sports is working very, very hard for its high-paying sponsors. It has integrated Pizza Hut, Monster.com and Ritz, which have each sponsored an hour of the pre-Super Bowl show, into the program. The effort has been shameless and ridiculous. In the 5 o’clock hour sponsored by Callaway, CBS just had the golf equipment maker’s most prominent endorser, Phil Mickelson, whack two balls, marked “Indy” and “N.O.,” down a fairway with a Diablo Edge driver, to predict the winner. Lefty hit the “N.O.” ball the longest. And it all looked very awkward. It might have been a more creative sponsored segment if he had used the 20-year-old, square-grooved Ping Eye 2 wedge that Scott McCarron recently criticized him for using. But then, of course, it wouldn’t have been about Callaway. Update | 5:31 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir Bill Cowher’s jailhouse interview with the former Giant Plaxico Burress on CBS’s Super Bowl pregame show was generally well done and  asked the core question — about the prominence of athletes and handguns. But the segment would have been better without the opening embrace between the men or Cowher concluding by saying, “No one is pulling for you more than I am, and I said before, it’s not how many times you get knocked down but it’s how many times you get back up.” In such a serious situation, emotional distance is better (or, at least, sentiments like that are better expressed off-camera); Burress’s regret over discharging an unlicensed handgun, and wounding himself, in a New York City nightclub was believable and powerful enough without Cowher’s feelings being so upfront. One lingering question: where were Cowher and Burress? Despite showing Cowher entering the prison, I never heard him say where he was. Did anybody hear him identify the prison?  Update | 5:26 p.m. | From Greg Bishop The most analyzed limb in football finally hit the field here before Super Bowl XLIV. There was Dwight Freeney and his famous ankle, and for the first time this week, there was Freeney running, in the end zone. It was hard not to read into what Freeney looked like. He warmed up for around 10 minutes. He ran, mostly straight ahead. He tested his movement from his three-point stance. And he looked, well, normal, at least for those of us reporters playing unofficial doctors of observation. Freeney looked quick. He looked strong. Most important, on his final warm-up run, he zigged and zagged and appeared to test the ankle. Afterward, he did not limp. Does this mean Freeney is healthy? No. But could he have an impact in Super Bowl XLIV? That seems more likely than it did this afternoon. Update | 5:09 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir The anti-abortion ad featuring Tim Tebow and his mother, Pam, that generated so much opposition before it was ever seen, has already run twice on CBS’s pre-Super Bowl show. To me, its very blandness helped it deflate the controversy. You clearly knew what its message was; just as clearly, you can see why CBS accepted the advocacy ad. Produced by the conservative Christian group Focus on the Family, Pam Tebow said in the ad that she called Tim “my miracle baby” because he “almost didn’t make it into this world. I remember almost losing him.” Now that he’s an adult, she said, “I still worry about his health. To me, he’s just my baby.” It ended with the tag-line: “Celebrate life. Celebrate family.”  Update | 4:53 p.m. | From Greg Bishop Most of the official Super Bowl XLIV events took place in and around Fort Lauderdale. But true Super Bowl opulence was about 30 minutes away, a short drive south to Miami and South Beach and $50 parking lots. Last year, at the Super Bowl in Tampa, I accompanied the prolific New York Times writer John Branch for a piece he wrote on the Maxim party and how inside that building, life did not mirror the struggling economy. This year figured to be no different, but in reality, Super Bowl parties on South Beach were somehow bigger, crazier, more indulgent, more extreme. On Saturday night, Maxim held its party at The Raleigh Hotel on Collins Avenue. It would be easier to list who was not there than to list who was. Among those The Fifth Down spied in its quest for celebrity journalism (and an adult beverage or two): Paul Mitchell, Robert Horry, Evander Holyfield, Larry Fitzgerald and Tom Arnold. The official list included a host of other celebrities. Among them: Asher Roth, Brody Jenner, Floyd Mayweather, Kendra Wilkinson, Russell Simmons, Pete Yorn and Wilmer Valderrama. Maxim centered its party around the hotel pool. Bands performed on a stage that was surrounded by sand, including those guys who do that song “Shots.” a group called LMFAO. Holyfield spent at least 30 minutes on the dance floor. Jermaine Dupri served as DJ. Even ordinary Joes (read: reporters or people who spent $1,600 on a ticket) walked the catwalk. The same people who ran Maxim also ran three nights of parties at Hotel 944 at Eden Roc. Common, Drake, Wyclef and Snoop Dog all performed there. Those spotted in attendance included: the Williams sisters, Tyson Beckford, Joel Madden, Julius Irving, Michael Strahan and Javon Walker. Logistically this was different than most Super Bowls, which are usually held in one city, for parties and interviews and everything. Here, the revelers needed to head south. Once there, they found Super Bowl opulence at its finest.  Update | 4:42 p.m. | From Greg Bishop The Power of the No. 44 was not lost on two men who wore it during their N.F.L. careers. Certainly not on this week, of all weeks, when both were voted into the Hall of Fame. Let’s see: Floyd Little played running back for the Denver Broncos. He wore No. 44. Dick LeBeau played cornerback for the Detroit Lions. He also wore No. 44. Both waited an abnormally long time to gain entry into the Hall of Fame. Both made it one day before Super Bowl XLIV (or 44), in the first term of the 44th president (Barack Obama), with 44 members of the Hall of Fame Committee voting. Little even offered to pay LeBeau’s way down to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for the Hall of Fame voting and festivities. “I told you three weeks ago that I hope the 44s are reunited,” LeBeau said. On Saturday, they were linked forever, by both jersey number and entry into the Hall of Fame.  Update | 4:35 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir Super Bowl pregame shows create absurd juxtapositions. Shortly after 4 p.m. Eastern, CBS carried perhaps the best musical segment ever shown on a Super Bowl pregame program: Wynton Marsalis’s tribute to New Orleans, jazz and the Saints. The great trumpeter showed he is also a great wordsmith and narrator, mixing his music with evocative phrases. “You ever wait for something for so long that the waiting becomes the something?” he asked about the decades it took the Saints to reach the Super Bowl. He said that people brag about surviving tragedy, like the hurricanes Betsy and Camille, which are “discussed like people.” But he said, “Nobody brags on Katrina; she swept over here like death on high horse.”  Beautiful stuff.  “Genius,” James Brown proclaimed. But rather than leave for a break on Marsalis’s memorable notes, Brown shifted quickly to a ridiculous promo to hype up another pre-game sponsor, Pizza Hut. “It’s a big day for pizza lovers,” he said, adding that Pizza Hut has 120,000 employees; expects to sell 1.7 million pizzas today (“enough to cover 45 football fields”) and that 60 percent of Americans will ask for pepperoni as a topping. To which any right-minded viewer should ask: who cares?  Update | 4:04 p.m. | From Tom Jolly in Miami Gardens, Fla. Count a sense of humor among the attributes of the Indianapolis Colts: * Mike Murphy, the Colts’ linebackers coach, who for years has had a squad of players under 6-feet tall, said he told General Manager Bill Polian that he couldn’t take them to Disney World even if the team won the Super Bowl. “They aren’t tall enough to get on the rides,” he said. * Colts guard Ryan Lilja said he got a quick introduction to the offensive line’s tradition of fining their fellow players for misdeeds, real or imagined, and an equally quick lesson in the futility of appealing the fines. After the Chiefs released him and he was signed by the Colts six years ago, his suitcase arrived at the training center with a Chiefs luggage tag on it. He was told he was getting a $100 fine. “I said, I just got here. I didn’t even have time to change it. They said, ‘All right, $200 fine.’ ”  Update | 3:57 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir Yes, CBS’s embrace of Ritz was inane. But CBS has also offered substantial segments. — Judy Battista via Twitter The standout has been James Brown’s lengthy report on the survival of New Orleanians after Hurricane Katrina. While Brown could not equal the stunning impact of Spike Lee’s 2006 documentary, “When the Levees Broke,” he and his producer movingly conveyed the frustration of residents with the glacial pace of governmental help to rebuild the Lower Ninth Ward and the parallel love they feel for the Saints. An 87-year-old man stood where where his house once was and told Brown what he would tell a city official: “Tell ’em I need help. Any help I can get. They gave me such a hard time. Working all my life, paying taxes. I don’t understand it.” Dick Enberg pulled on viewers’ heartstrings, as he often does, with his report on the intertwined lives of two Arkansas high school football players who never met each other. One of them moved from one school to another of a failed drug test and honored the memory of the other who died in a traffic accident. Nicely done without being too emotional. CBS could have extended a short report on the players of Haitian heritage playing in the Super Bowl and their plans to help the country in its time of need.  Update | 3:52 p.m. | From Justin Sablich in Miami Gardens, Fla. Arriving at Sun Life Stadium on Sunday afternoon, it was much easier to spot a Saints jersey than a Colts one as fans streamed in. The Saints have been established as the sentimental favorites heading into Super Bowl XLIV, and this should be reflected in the stands.  Will having a home-crowd advantage give the Saints a significant boost? It certainly won’t hurt.  Update | 3:35 p.m. | From Richard Sandomir Within its first hour, it was clear that CBS’s Super Bowl pregame show was just like nearly every one of its predecessors. To fill out the always-inflated program (four hours for CBS), the network must descend into silliness. CBS played corporate footsie with Ritz crackers, which sponsored the first hour of the show. One segment found Boomer Esiason at the Ritz tailgate party and with the the Ritz marching band; then, at the CBS “Super Bowl Today” desk at Sun Life Stadium, Esiason stuffed his mouth to overflow with Ritz crackers. Ritz was already getting its money’s worth when the CBS pregame crew (with Esiason at the grill) joined the Food Network chef Guy Fieri for still more pregame tailgating, where everything (cream cheese, sour cream, shrimp, bacon, buffalo wings, meatballs, jalapeno peppers and, I think, Dan Marino and Bill Cowher), fit on Ritzes (Ritzi?). Ritz hasn’t gotten this much publicity since Andy Griffith told us: “Everything tastes better when it sits on a Ritz.” I’d love to see if Ritz is the cracker du jour on CBS’s “NFL Today” when it isn’t sponsoring the show. Clearly, Boomer likes them. Update | 3:00 p.m. | From Tom Jolly in Miami Gardens:  Despite the Saints’ long history of futility, linebacker Scott Fujita said he did not believe the team would fall back into mediocrity after their Super Bowl dream season. Fujita, an outspoken eight-year N.F.L. veteran who signed with the Saints in 2006, said he was convinced Coach Sean Payton had changed the team’s culture for good. Bringing in better talent was a crucial part of the transformation, but Fujita said Payton’s influence ran deeper than that. — Judy Battista via Twitter “We have a great locker room,” he said. “There are no knuckleheads. There are no cancers. There are no problem guys you have to worry about. It’s a bunch of great guys who have come from all over the place. Together, they form a really great team with great chemistry.” Payton became head coach in 2006 and, that same year, the Saints signed Fujita and Drew Brees as free agents and drafted running back Reggie Bush, safety Roman Harper, guard Jahri Evans and receiver Marcus Colston. The Saints have played in the N.F.C. championship game twice in the four seasons since, losing to the Bears, 39-14, on Jan. 21, 2007, and beating the Vikings, 30-27, this season. (Coincidentally, the Colts won the A.F.C. championship both of those seasons.)  Fujita said the Saints’ blend of youth and experience bodes well for the future. He said he believed that the 31-year-old Brees had at least five more good seasons in him and that defensive end Will Smith and cornerback Jabari Greer are hitting their prime. In addition to the 2006 draft choices, a host of other young players fill the Saints’ roster, including running backs Mike Bell and Pierre Thomas, receiver Robert Meachem and cornerback Malcolm Jenkins. “It’s fun going to work at a place with a bunch of guys who have a shared vision,” Fujita said. The Saints’ drive to the Super Bowl was especially fun, of course, and Fujita said it reminded him of a visit he and his wife had made to Paris a few years ago: “France had just beaten Brazil to win the World Cup. The whole city was celebrating and a huge crowd gathered in the Champ-Elysées. My wife and I were talking about whether there was any event and any city in America where that kind of celebration could occur. New Orleans these past two weeks is that place.” Update | 2:32 p.m. | From Justin Sablich in Miami Gardens: In the week leading up to Super Bowl XLIV, players and coaches of both the Colts and the Saints played down the fact that the Saints will be playing in their first Super Bowl while the Colts have been here before. “I don’t think that’s an advantage at all,” Colts Coach Jim Caldwell said.  “It doesn’t matter that we’ve been here before. It doesn’t matter that we have 25 guys on our team that have actually been through this process before. What really counts is when we kick that ball off on Sunday.” But the last eight teams to make their Super Bowl debut have a record of 2-6, going back to 1994. The last team to win in their first Super Bowl was the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2002. “It’s only an advantage if we let them make it an advantage,” Saints linebacker Jonathan Vilma said. Will the Colts’ Super Bowl experience play a major role in today’s game? The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.     The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…     The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…     John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement 