Bonnie Hammer’s attention to detail and programming instincts at NBCUniversal networks like USA has made her possibly the “most important executive” in cable television, Bill Carter writes, and a critical piece of Comcast’s takeover of the company last year. In her career, she identified Bob Vila as a host, taught Vince McMahon how to build story arcs into wrestling and made USA a powerhouse with shows like “Royal Pains” and “Burn Notice.” Yet the job she really wanted – turning out NBC’s dismal primetime – somehow has escaped her. Mr. Carter writes: But at a lunch with the then-chief NBC executive, Jeff Zucker, Ms. Hammer had been prepared to discuss the possibilities, perhaps suggesting she could commute to the job. Mr. Zucker did not offer it. “There was a bit of fear that USA is making so much money we have to protect it,” Ms. Hammer said. In the 1980s, Eddie Murphy filled movie houses with his comedy shows like “Raw.” Last week, Louis C.K. “decided to go direct with his fans: no cable special, no middleman, just a simple download for $5 on his Web site to see his comedy show,” writes David Carr in his column The Media Equation. If he gets the 200,000 viewers he expects, his profit will be $750,000. “It feels weird having numbers out there, because that’s my personal income,” he told Mr. Carr. “But I talked to my mom, who is a pretty judicious, careful person, and she said, ‘Tell them everything. Just let it all get out there.’ So that’s what I have been doing, at least so far.” Stuart Elliott offers his perspective on the best and worst ads of the year. His conclusion: both winners and losers featured celebrities. On the plus side is Chrysler’s ode to the American automotive industry featuring the Detroit native Eminem. On the other side of the ledger is the faux-Bronx stylings of Jennifer Lopez and the disastrous Groupon Superbowl ad with celebrities mocking their own charitable impulses. “The joke, such as it was, fell as flat as a Groupon discount coupon for 1 percent off the price of a Super Bowl spot — and the campaign was discontinued days later,” Mr. Elliott writes. An unexpected winner in cable television, Brian Stelter writes, is the History channel, which has turned only faintly historical shows like “Pawn Stars” and “American Pickers” into ratings gold. “The final ratings for 2011 will show that History, a unit of A+E Networks, attracted more middle-aged men than any other cable channel except ESPN,” he writes. Next up is a medieval jousting tournament and a scripted show “Hatfield and McCoys.” Apple has increased its efforts to impress media executives with its television service Apple TV, according to an article in The Wall Street Journal. Part of the company’s pitch, write Jessica E. Vascellaro and Sam Schechner, is that company is applying some of its talent for interfaces and consumer behavior to the traditional activity of watching television. “In at least one meeting, Apple described future television technology that would respond to users’ voices and movements, one of the people said. Such technology, which Apple indicated may take longer than some of its other ideas, might allow users to use their voices to search for a show or change channels.” Vaclav Havel, the Czech playwright and essayist who took the rare step from writing to governing, is being mourned after his death on Sunday after years of ill health. After years under Communist rule, including five years in prison, Havel emerged as one of the countries leading intellectuals whose ideas helped sweep him to power in the Velvet Revolution. “In his now iconic 1978 essay “The Power of the Powerless,” which circulated in underground editions in Czechoslovakia and was smuggled to other Warsaw Pact countries and to the West, Mr. Havel foresaw that the opposition could eventually prevail against the totalitarian state,” write Dan Bilevsky and Jane Perlez in Sunday’s Times. Writers, apparently, still pose a threat to repressive regimes – and vice versa. In The Guardian, Nadira Isayeva writes about Khadzhimurad Kamalov, the founder of Chernovik, a muckraking paper in Russia’s violent North Caucasus, who was killed as he left his office on Thursday night. It was an event, the writer says, that was long feared, writes Ms. Isayeva, who herself has been targeted by authorities for her own reporting on police corruption and Islamic extremists in the region. “Khadzhimurad had many enemies.” she writes. “He wasn’t afraid to spell out his motto: ‘A newspaper does not need friends.’”     The Fox network announced four new dramas and five new comedies it has ordered for the next television season.Read more…     The New York Times’ Media news can now be found at the Media & Advertising section front.Read more…     David Zinczenko, the former Rodale executive who wrote the “Eat This, Not That” series, will write three books on exercise, diet and nutrition, and form a new imprint, Zinc Ink.Read more…     The race, ethnicity and culture reporting in NPR’s series “Changing Races” is part of the network’s strategy to “do better about mirroring America,” the chief executive says.Read more…     The Emmy-winning actor may replace Carson Daly in a late-night half hour interview program, according to one executive involved in the network’s program planning.Read more… Follow Advertisement 