Advertisement By ALAN FEUERFEB. 6, 2014  Traditionally, and in no particular order, Super Bowl Sunday tends to result in hangovers, gambling losses and chatter about the commercials. But what about romance? Can the big game inspire big love? The answer appears to be yes; at least according to the personal ads on Craigslist. The following poems about the erotic possibilities of the Super Bowl were found last week in the Missed Connections section of newyork.craigslist.com. They are printed verbatim with only line and stanza breaks added; their titles are the subject headings. L TRAIN CRUSH/LATE-NIGHT SUPERBOWL SUNDAY We stared at each other on the Lat around 130-2AMon Super Bowl Sunday,I got on the L at Dekalb Ave.You are a gorgeous black womanand I was listening to my iPhoneplaying air guitar on my knee(you smiled at that, a lot) :)We wanted to talk, but didn’t.Should we have? Yes.If you’re reading this,get in touch.(The only way to truly identify you,is if you describe the rest of your outfit:Starting with:grey scarf around your neck,black jacket,pink mitten/gloves ... SEA ... HAWKS ... SEA ... HAWKS  You were a tall young manwearing a Seahawks jersey,about to get on the elevatorin this high rise hotel,joining one friendthat was already inthe elevator car with me ...but waiting for a friend still arriving. I was the tall blondin the black business suitwith my hair in a side pony tail.We exchanged long looks.The door closed. Will we eversee each other again?Likely you’re from another state ... Advertisement YOU SIGNED YOUR WAY INTO MY HEART On an unsuspecting sunday eveningI turned on my televisionto watch some footballand there you were.You were standing in the cornerof my screen andyou were wearing a purple,cozy looking coat.I doubt you noticed mesince I was sittingon my couch at home,but if you didmaybe you feel the same as I do.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. I can’t remember whowas singing at the time,but she sang very slowly.Regardless, you signedwith an energy that captivated me.I’m not deaf, but if I wereI would have appreciatedthe passion you put into it.They should have brought youon for the Mandela thing... Advertisement Sadly, I’m sure we’ll neversee each other in real life,but I will look for you during half-time.Sincerely, Not Really A Football Fan,But It’s The Superbowl So I’m Watching BRONCOS FAN, GRAPHIC DESIGNER/MD, C TRAIN Hey, I thoughtI had 10 more blocksto give you my number ...If you’d like it: Not playing footballis to healthy livingas better helmets are to: _______ ________ CONSOLING A BRONCOS FAN ON THE 6 we talked footballfor a couple stops.you made me feela little betterabout the broncos losing.worst.game.ever. A version of this article appears in print on February 9, 2014, on Page MB3 of the New York edition with the headline: Off-the-Field Fumbles and Passes.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 