Updated, July 8, 11:30 p.m. | Yoshiaki Sato, a scholar based in Japan, joins our discussion and notes Jackson’s contribution to the visual culture of pop music. As crowds gathered in Los Angeles on Tuesday morning for Michael Jackson’s memorial, sections of freeways were shut down as the funeral procession made its way to the Staples Center. More than 1.6 million people registered online to win tickets to the service. Several European broadcasters cleared their schedules to show the event in prime time. In death, Michael Jackson’s celebrity seems likely to exceed his popularity even at the height of his fame. Given his musical legacy, is this reaction overblown or deserved? Does this spectacle say something beyond a public fascination with his story and the ability of his managers to turn a funeral into a Superbowl-like event?    John McWhorter, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, is the author of “Our Magnificent Bastard Tongue: The Untold Story of English.”  We got over Ed McMahon a good while ago now, and the scattering of Farrah Fawcett magazine covers already looks a little 10 minutes ago. What keeps us from getting over Michael Jackson is partly, of all things, his blankness. The surgery, the falsetto speech and the costumes were someone keeping himself at a distance. We saw a ghost who could sing up a storm and dance better — but so weightlessly in both cases, with the airy voice and always the moonwalking. He was so willfully nonspecific that he became a distillation of brilliance of no race, gender or age, just mesmerizing. His art inhabited the real world only in a gestural sense. Let’s face it, as good as the songs are, the person snarling “Beat It” has never been in a fight, and it’s hard to imagine the singer of “Billie Jean” fathering anything. All of America could love him — because he made sure not to actually be anyone. It was a fascinating trick and it sticks with us. And what he put himself through to pull it off makes his passing even harder to get over. To black people, the bleaching and chiseling was the tragic self-negating behavior of our wide-nosed boy singer with an Afro, grown up and lost. But whites have opened up to blackness to such an extent that they were often just as dismayed by the surgery. “Cosby” became a runaway hit, Will Smith became Hollywood’s biggest star, hip hop went mainstream, America elected a black president — and Michael died looking like Greta Garbo. Sixty years ago most whites would have wondered why more black stars didn’t do what he did. Today they mourn him as someone who couldn’t face what he was, because they would have loved that, too — or at least given it a shot. In that, our current Michael-mania, like Obama’s election, embodies what America in 2009 is all about.  Margo Jefferson, a former culture critic for The Times and winner of the Pulitzer Prize for criticism, is a professor at Eugene Lang College, the New School for Liberal Arts. She is the author of “On Michael Jackson.” A simple fact: our reaction to any and every celebrity death is overblown. The media and its consumers (we the fans, the spectators, the commentators, even the dissenters busily blogging their disapproval) are locked into a feverish ritual. Its elements? True grief, a certain relief (we won’t have to keep worrying about his life), and pure voyeurism. (Bring on every seedy detail and speculation!)  An embarrassing fact: the ritual of alternately mourning and gossiping about a dead celebrity is a shamelessly welcome relief from knotty political and economic issues. A friend of mine saw a headline that read: “Michael Jackson’s Death Is Bad For Iran.”  It was. That being said, when it comes to great pop culture, which all the world cares for, is there any more spectacular figure? Michael Jackson the entertainer contained multitudes. He was part of the soul-music tradition that included James Brown, Jackie Wilson, Smokey Robinson and Sly Stone. He was part of a stage and screen tradition that produced Josephine Baker, Fred Astaire, Sammy Davis Jr. and Judy Garland.  Who better expressed so many contradictions — struggles, achievements, questions, ambiguities, transgressions — about race and gender? About our obsession with youth, with the innocence and eros of children; that oh-so-American drive to reinvent and transform our bodies, our lives and our selves?  There’s almost no major cultural story Michael Jackson hasn’t starred in for nearly 40 years.  Mark Anthony Neal, a professor of black popular culture at Duke University, is the author of several books including “New Black Man.”  His essay “Can You Remember?” is featured in a recently released Michael Jackson box set, “Hello World: The Complete Motown Solo Collection.” Michael Jackson and the Jackson Five were products of the early moments of the post-civil rights era of the 1960s. Part of what was so significant about their successes — the hit records, the sold-out concerts, the Saturday morning cartoon, the teen fanzine that they helped spawn — was their crossover appeal, which was not unlike that of their record label Motown. By the time Michael Jackson stepped forward on his own with recordings like “Off the Wall” (1979)  and “Thriller” (1982), his generational peers were of an age where they could fully appreciate what it meant for an African-American man to achieve the level of mainstream appeal that Jackson did.   Lost in his unprecedented celebrity was the multicultural, multiracial and multi-ethnic component of his audience, and few artists before or after could ever claim such a following. At his peak, Michael Jackson’s celebrity, like his music, had transcended simple labels; “the King of Pop” was apropos.  As his career transcended national borders, Michael Jackson became a coalescing symbol of global community. A decade before the Internet, his music and moves formed the lingua franca of that community.  Many of those fans (I’m sure New York Congressman Peter King was never among them) surely tired of the sideshow that Jackson’s life and, to a lesser extent, his career had become. The outpouring of emotion that we’ve witnessed since his death and so visibly on display in Los Angeles today may have less to do with Jackson’s musical legacy — singular as it is — as  with the remembrance of the “beloved” community that he symbolized.  It’s not surprising to see how such a community is reconstituted via Facebook and Twitter and other social networking sites.  It suggests that as the demands of our everyday lives push us in so many different and conflicting directions there are still needs for human contact and shared experience.  Michael Jackson was, perhaps, the most powerful symbol of those needs.  Bonnie Fuller, the founder and chief executive of Bonnie Fuller Media, is the former editorial director of American Media Inc. and the former editor in chief of Us Weekly, Glamour, Cosmopolitan, Marie Claire and YM magazines. Michael Jackson, like Princess Diana, has proven that the tragic and completely unexpected passing of a superstar familiar to billions can create an emotional unifying experience for millions. And as human beings, we like experiences that have the power to emotionally unite us with each other. In normal everyday life, we mostly stick to pleasantries or business-type discussions when talking to all but our closest friends and family. Those conversations don’t allow for any special bonding with each other. Then along comes an event that is so stupendous, so unexpected, involving a celebrity of enormous fame that we all know and hold shared fond memories of, and it jolts us out of our everyday constraints. It doesn’t matter who we talk to — a friend or a stranger in line at Starbucks — we can suddenly, without any normal hold-backs, just share our thoughts … about Michael Jackson. Share our shock, our regrets at his passing. The fact that Michael Jackson sang the songs that were the background music for so many of our growing-up experiences, gives us the basis for this connection. It’s impossible for almost everyone of certain generations in Western-influenced cultures not to feel the enormity of the loss of his talent, or to wonder what might have been if he had been able to make the comeback he hoped for. Ultimately, being able to share our collective grief is a cathartic and hugely satisfying experience for us as human beings. Yoshiaki Sato has taught American literature and popular music at the University of Tokyo and elsewhere. His various publications include Japanese translation of Thomas Pynchon’s “Vineland” and Gregory Bateson’s “Steps to an Ecology of Mind.” When MTV first appeared and music needed a clear visual definition, Michael Jackson was right there at the frontier. His “Thriller” album defined an entire pop culture, and destroyed forever the idea that music is only for listening. Michael, along with the rest of the 80’s bunch, made pop music easy and spellbinding to watch. After that, the makers and deliverers of music were able to announce to a global audience — to borrow a phrase from Michael — “we are the world.” Indeed. Just watch Michael on stage in Bucharest at the 1992 “Dangerous World Tour.” Watch the radiant eyes and the bouncing bodies of that enormous crowd and how mesmerized they were by his presence.   Michael may have been a bigger force in history than all the unused hydrogen bombs. His moonwalk may have been a bigger leap for mankind than Apollo 11. Just imagine one billion people on earth having watched one minute of Michael every day for 15 years of their lives. Altogether that would make some 90,000,000,000 total hours of attention. This is power. And it’s potentially a huge, efficient, cultural — and political power. Comments are no longer being accepted. For me, and I suspect for most people, it’s the music.  It is absolutely addictive and can move even the most serious people. mj rocks! Money, pure and simple.  Ad revenues generated by media covering his death and profits generated by the sale of Jackson-related merchandise will keep this mania going for as long as possible. Michael Jackson was bigger than this world in his thinking. I cannot name any other artist that wrote about unification of humanity and love in the way that he did; he was ahead of his time/our time.  Globally, while many fans collectively grieve, I am not sure if as a nation, as a world we will ever get to that place that Michael Jackson sung and spoke about—with passion unmatched.   People were hung up on the things that were fodder for conversation in the absence of, or the shying away from that which we collectively negate as juvenile: love and collective humanity. He loved in ways that we had not seen and that were not socially “normed”, but is celebrity a social “norm”?  Michael Jackson transcended barriers in ways that we have never seen.  He morphed himself into someone who did not look black or white, male or female, so to that degree something in him led him to sacrifice himself on multiple levels to leave a legacy on the world.  He was absolutely someone and many people were somehow internally frustrated by his physical changes because he forbade us from assigning him a label, thus much of the media (and many people) resolved to bullying and name calling in the worst way.  The accusations, the bullying broke a man’s spirit and regardless of whether he could be assigned a “race”, a gender, or a sexual preference; he was in fact human. I, like countless others grieve the loss of a spirit that many people (often the relentless media) would rather crucify than embrace, this is why I grieve. He was unprecedented in his talent, his genius, his work ethic, and his philanthropy.  So I speak on behalf of why I grieve and sure there are things to chat about, wonder about, and questions that should, in respect of his privacy, go unanswered to the public, but in terms of spirit and global presence we grieve the loss of goodness much like we grieved others who have gone before (Jackie Onassis, Princess Diana) and countless others who left their global fingerprint on the human spirit. Michael Jackson will be missed. I  mostly agree with John McWhorter about him ending up looking like Greta Garbo. The memorial was heartwrenching to watch. It is impossible to explain the response to Michael Jackson’s death in any logical rational way or even by referencing Jackson himself. This kind of unrestrained mania can only be explaind as a human hunger being fulfilled. Our need for heroes and someone to believe in. Confirmation that live is more than our day to day existence. That there is something more. No matter how good a singer and dancer Michael Jackson was no entertainer really has the kind of impact on society or on individual lives the response to Jackson’s death would have us believe Jackson did. Michael Jackson in this context is an actor on a stage in death who allows us to suspend reality in favor of becoming one with a fantasy we are watching and doing our part to create to fantasy. A self-fulfilling prophesy “enhanced” by the media machine. As such we become fulfilled if only momentarily. No one ccnsumed by Michael Jackson the last few days will find their lives or society any different a week or month from now because of Michael Jackson. But you can be forgiven for thinking so right now based on what we see today. Part of the mania is nostalgia — remembering a happier, simpler time when Michael Jackson had his earliest successes. There also has not be ANY musical artist/dancer/entertainer to emerge in the last 25 years who comes anywhere close to being as talented. Sadly he couldn’t handle the fame he courted and it killed him as surely as anything else did. The weirder he became, the more he reminded me of Norma Desmond from Billy Wilder’s classic, “Sunset Boulevard,” right down to the pet monkey. R.I.P. MJ. I think we have wronged MJ…He music will live on forever…we will always be the mediocre people who will hate him because he dared to be different!! He has the potic license to do as he please…socienty can never bind genius!! It was his voice. Michael Jackson was a child that sang his heart out arpegiating up and down with precious melodies. I thought then that he was sweetness itself. This boy was love that could be experienced at listening, then he taught himself taking masters for tutors how to dance and so he danced! That grace that was his own never ceased to attract and hold longer that any other man on earth…it was as if he could sign forever by me. I actually chose to dine out only at the place where they carried his sound tracks finding in his voice comfort in the midst of my own troubles. He had me rest, ironically! It was more than art, Michael was personal, intimate and so very mine. In very many ways although I am nothing like him I feel there was a love relationship with this tiny man that found so much trouble in the world of the grown ups and for that I held him so…I am as hurt and as captive of him as the first time I heard his sweet darling voice. I know what I am about say will make a few of you readers angry…Does america realize that we are making a huge deal over a CHILD MOLESTER!! I mean we all know he did it, TWICE and he had more than enough money to get himself out of it. Why else would you have a house called NEVERLAND, why invite little kids over to your house when you are the only adult no other children around. Sure he had great music but that was before all the alligations. TAXPAYERS are paying 3.5 million for this and I think it just CRAZY. He died whoopie moving on…. RIP I am a huge Michael Jackson, and Jackson 5, fan. A single observation among many one could make: Perhaps great numbers of us, in Michael, saw and connected with two “different people:” first, the artistic and physical genius we admired and wished we could be, and 2) the lonely, sad, and perhaps abused or neglected person we in fact are. We craved what he had, and we believed he understood and cared about some bruised and lost parts of ourselves. He was both a fantastically gifted and thus “remote” figure, and an ordinary boy/man who wanted to love and be loved. In life and in death, this powerful combination attracts us. I have been thinking a lot of this situation and I don’t know what anyone else thinks, but I personally am anger at his death people fight day and night like Farrah for their life and just like elvis I don’t think Michael death was suppose to happen at 50 years old.  The drugs whether prescription or not was something that could of been kept from happening just like Elvis death.  They both should of been able to grow old with their children and families.  I think that is what makes this more sad is it just did not have to be this way for both Michael and Elvis. I don’t know what drives Michael mania on the whole; I can only offer a personal perspective.  My Michael Mania is steeped in gratitude for the example of the potential a solitary life can have. The singing, the dancing, the creating, the teacher, the student, the humanitarian and the celebrity are all apendages to that notion.  Each is crucial in defining his singular example, but it’s the ENTIRE package that drives the mania, the bad and the good mixed together.  Say what you want about him personally, but the man drove many people to do genuine, sincere and drastic good…even if the worst assumed about him happened, on that count he deserves respect.I am maniacal for those I sincerely respect. I am curious why the black community imbrace him now when he did everything in his power to be white. He even bought white children. I find that insulting and I am white. I still can;t get over the fact that he is on record saying there is nothing wrong with an adult male sleeping with little boys. Did everyone forget that? Maybe I would mourn him if he had died before all the surgery and sleepovers. DItto to Dave’s comment.  The media mania is only about the media – specifically money and ratings. The media are unfortunately meeting an apparent insatiable public need to broadcast about Michael Jackson ad nauseum.  Sad at many, many levels. It’s the MUSIC – stupid.  The guy is really really good!  Americans don’t get it! I spent the last two weeks reading EVERYTHING I could about Michael Jackson with the purpose of writing a very poignant and factually accurate account of the incredible life he lived.  If you’re a fan of the King of Pop, or if you’re a fan of good writing, check out my story on the world’s most famous entertainer. //balmer.typepad.com/keithsmooth/ A Funny Writer, A Funny Blog He ranted against Jewish people and pulled the race card when it fit his purpose. The rest of the time he tried to deny being black, Good grief he is whiter than I am as being of Irish decent. His children (who are not of his DNA) are white. He thought it was ok to sleep with little boys. All of that is forgiven now that he killed himself with drugs? Not for a lot of us. I do not more the passing of someone like him. He was a very disturbed person. Based on the reaction to his death, there are great many more out there. some of us grieve out of guilt, of our slander, lies and jeering , which acted as a guard against the times when we couldn’t comprehend how he had embodied humanity, as we had envisioned, and yet we ourselves seem to stumble in the opposite every time. we all had lost an anchor of love and passion in the sea of violence and hedonism that we swim. It’s not so much about Michael Jackson was but what his fans are not.  To me, people who scream and cry and faint over a distant man they would never meet indicates a profound emptiness inside themselves. That millions worship emotionally infirm people like Princess Diana, Elvis and Michael Jackson is proof to me of a sad, sick society. That today, in a state passing out IOUs and cutting valuable programs for the needy is a multi million dollar memorial service for a wealthy man that molested children is truly sad. I want to comment on an episode in Michael Jackson’s life that needs to be noted for the record, for posterity.  When the cable music station was created and becane popular across the USA, Canada and other countries, blatant racism on the part of the company’s executives kept Black performers off the channel. All protests were ignored, all sorts of transparent excuses were offered with snickers and jocular put downs. For myself, I personally hated these MTV executives, a small handful, with a boiling raging hatred. Had I been an American, I would have found some way to act against them.  It was Michael Jackson himself acting on his own initiative that ended this racist discrimination by MTV, an organization that was becoming almost indespensible (at that time) in the business of popular music. For this,  and the music too of course,Thank You Michael.  And if the Heaven that you believe in really does exists, may you Rest In Peace and Joyful Tranquility. C. ALEXANDER BROWN What’s driving the mania?  That’s easy…the media.  We’re told he was the “King of Pop” and he became so.  We’re told that he was electrifying and he became so.  We’re told he was a perveted weirdo and he became so. He was a good singer and dancer, but there have been (and will be) lots of others.  I don’t miss him at all.  He’s no more gone now than he has been for the past several years.  His music and videos will be around forever on the Internet.  He has done anything notable (in music, that is…) for a long time. We’ll have enough controversy and conspiracy about his death for a long time.  The King of Pop is dead?  Not really. John, one day you’ll understand it all. It’s called ‘first black friend syndrome.’ The first black person in a non-black person’s life who is safe enough to take home. And sit beside your copy of Donny Osmond.     Visit Room for Debate’s new home on The New York Times Web site.Read more…     What does the latest research tell us about the extent of combat trauma?Read more…     Are American citizens’ contributions to West Bank settlements helping or hurting the peace process?Read more…     Why has the F.D.A. stalled in requiring better labels and safer ingredients in sunscreens?Read more…     Are New York City’s plans to revamp testing of preschoolers for gifted programs a step backward? Read more… Advertisement 