Advertisement By KATE TAYLORJAN. 31, 2012  Never mind those Ferris Bueller and “Star Wars”-themed Super Bowl ads. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has shot a Super Bowl ad, too, and he thinks it is pretty funny, though with a serious message. The half-minute ad features Mr. Bloomberg and Boston’s mayor, Thomas M. Menino, ribbing each other as they cheer for their respective teams and cities. But then they turn to the purpose of their spot, declaring that one thing they agree on is the need for stricter federal gun control laws. The two mayors are longtime allies on gun control and founders of a group called Mayors Against Illegal Guns, which has pushed for a stronger federal background check system. Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Menino shot the ad in New York early Tuesday. And, just as big Super Bowl advertisers like Honda and Volkswagen have been promoting their ads with previews on YouTube, Mr. Bloomberg publicized his at an appearance later Tuesday morning. Advertisement “It was very funny; you should take a look at it,” he told reporters in a news conference at the Pershing Square Signature Center, the new home of the Signature Theater. Mr. Bloomberg then mentioned the ad on Twitter. “We disagree on who’ll win the #Superbowl, but @MayorTomMenino & I agree on fighting illegal guns. Tune in Sunday,” the mayor (or one of his Twitter surrogates) wrote, attaching a photo of the shoot. In the picture, the mayors are sitting on a couch as though they are watching the game, with Mr. Bloomberg wearing a New York Giants jersey and Mr. Menino a New England Patriots jersey over their dress shirts and ties. (Mr. Bloomberg’s tie, for the record, was blue.) Advertisement On a coffee table before them are strewn several Giants and Patriots hats, as well as bowls of popcorn and chips — the kind of salty snacks that Mr. Bloomberg is known for publicly deploring but privately adoring.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The ad will be shown regionally, rather than nationally, meaning that, according to Mr. Bloomberg’s press office, the spot will cost only “hundreds of thousands of dollars,” rather than the average of $3.5 million that NBC is charging for a 30-second national advertising buy. The ad is being paid for by Mayors Against Illegal Guns, to which Mr. Bloomberg is a contributor. In a telephone interview, Mr. Menino said the ad was partly aimed at politicians in Washington. “It’s a fun way to get a very serious message across to the decision makers,” he said, adding, “If you want to hunt or you need a gun for protection of your business, O.K., but there’s too many loopholes.” The Super Bowl produces some of the most talked-about ads of the year, often featuring celebrities and filmed by some of the biggest agencies in the business. Last year, one of the most popular was a “Star Wars”-themed ad from Volkswagen. This year, Honda is already drawing attention with an ad it has previewed on YouTube for its CR-V, a compact S.U.V., featuring Matthew Broderick revisiting his role as the teenage malingerer Ferris Bueller. Mr. Bloomberg’s press office said that the mayors’ ad was produced by SKDKnickerbocker, a communications firm that also produced spots for his 2009 re-election campaign. Mr. Menino said he and Mr. Bloomberg first talked about doing the ad a week ago. Mr. Bloomberg might not get to see the ad when it is shown on Sunday. He said he was planning to go to Indianapolis to watch the game. A version of this article appears in print on February 1, 2012, on Page A25 of the New York edition with the headline: During Super Bowl, for 30 Seconds, 2 Mayors Will Be on Same Side.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 