Advertisement By ELISSA GOOTMANOCT. 7, 2011  IF most jobs in television are not as fabulous in real life as they seem from the battered couches of the people watching at home, the job of NY1 early-morning traffic reporter has a particularly high grunge-to-glamour imbalance: You’re on the air at 5 a.m. Your job is to tell viewers when the 2/3 trains are running local south of 34th Street and just how backed up the BQE is, in exactly 60 seconds. But there is Jamie Shupak, on The New York Observer’s list of 50 Media Power Bachelorettes. There she is in a fashion spread in The New York Post, holding onto a subway pole while posing in a Marchesa chiffon dress and glittering Badgley Mischka peep-toe pumps, dark tresses tumbling down her shoulders. The headline: “Trans-it girl.” Because fame begets skewering, Ms. Shupak has even inspired a blog whose unprintable name approximates “What is Jamie Shupak Wearing?” (“We all love to be comfortable at work, but puke-colored khaki pajamas?” reads one entry. “No.”) There, too, is Ms. Shupak in Complex, a magazine aimed at cosmopolitan young men, for which she moonlights as an online dating columnist — taking on another of the city’s most treacherous realms. “I love the traffic,” she said in an interview at a Jane Street cafe that was interrupted briefly when a female passer-by spotted her and mouthed “I love you!” through the glass. “I love that you’re giving people information that they actually will use.” It’s a statement that could also apply to the Complex column. Some of Ms. Shupak’s relationship advice: Saying sorry shows that you’re a man. Refrain from updating your Facebook status during a date. And never, ever, text a love interest while intoxicated. More on that later. Advertisement Since first appearing on NY1 in the summer of 2010, Ms. Shupak, who is 29 and 5 feet 1 inch and in real life looks like the younger sister, possibly still in college, of her made-up televised self, has become a New York personality, mixing up the channel’s morning report with her colorful Diane Von Furstenberg dresses and some lively banter with the morning news fixture Pat Kiernan. She has 4,100 followers on Twitter, far from Al Roker territory but a start. Advertisement “She’s only on for a minute every half-hour, and yet within a few months of her arrival, people were talking about her and tweeting her and commenting on my interaction with her,” Mr. Kiernan said. “It takes some people years to have that level of familiarity in a media market as saturated as New York.” The week when the United Nations General Assembly convened and President Obama visited, one follower, Jonathan Wald, the executive producer of “Piers Morgan Tonight” on CNN, commented on Twitter: “This is your Royal Wedding, Superbowl, Emmys and Burning Man all in one @JamieShupak. Let’s keep it moving.” “She has what I think is the key to success on television, and that is she looks like she feels like she’s got the greatest job in the world,” Mr. Wald said in an interview, adding that in reality, “The hours alone are enough to kill you.” Ms. Shupak grew up in suburban Philadelphia and majored in communications at the University of Maryland, with dreams, she said, of being “a serious hard news reporter.” The first job she was offered came from News 12 Traffic and Weather, on Long Island. “I was like, ‘I don’t know any roads in New York,’ ” she said, but she took the job. She left after a couple of years to do freelance work for other stations, still determined to do “the hard news thing.” But she had a constitutional problem. “Every boss I had, they were like, ‘You cannot stand in front of a house that just burned down and you’re smiling. You have to stop smiling.’ I was like, ‘I can’t.’ I just couldn’t.” “Stick with the traffic,” she was told. So she did, landing a fill-in job in Philadelphia, then a full-time freelance deal at the Philadelphia Fox affiliate. That ended after about a year, in September 2009. She moved back to New York to freelance and live with her fiancé, whom she had dated since college. In September 2010, she discovered that the fiancé was seeing another woman — via a text message that popped up on his phone as she was getting ready for work, no less, Ms. Shupak said. (Her ex disputed that in a brief telephone interview, saying he was “not dating anybody” else at the time and that “it was not like that at all.”) “My life had been derailed like one of the commuter trains I report on each morning,” Ms. Shupak wrote in a recent column. “And like those trains, it only takes a split second for everything to go careening off course.” Advertisement But she stuck to her routine: Awakening in her West Village apartment at 3:20 a.m; cabbing it to NY1’s headquarters, in the Chelsea Market building, keenly aware of the perils of keeping a car in Manhattan. After a quick check to ensure there are no major disasters on the roads, she does her makeup and irons her hair (her natural curls are “too unpredictable” for TV), while listening to Otis Redding or Bruno Mars on her iPhone. Around mascara time, she is joined by Mr. Kiernan; this may be the only time they are actually in the same room, as their “tosses” are filmed from separate locations. Then it’s up to the NY1 Rail and Road Studio, an isolated room down a hall and up a staircase, with bright green walls, thick dark shades that block the sun after dawn and a dozen screens showing various channels and maps. The first text of the day gives a hint as to why Ms. Shupak, who forswears even decaf, is so very perky so very early. It’s from her mother, Helen, at 4:55 a.m.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Mom: “Good morn sweetie pie. How ru? Fun last night?” (She’d been out, but with an old friend, so it’s unclear whether it was technically a date.) “Another exciting day for u in Jamieville?” Daughter: “Yea good good mama. How ru?” Mom: “Good. Goin to gym. Have a good day. Love u.” If you think the morning is a stressful blur of traffic-checking e-mails, fact-checking phone calls, furious script-scribbling, or rehearsals of what Ms. Shupak will say on air, you’ve got the wrong traffic reporter. Ms. Shupak seamlessly glides among a database listing delays and construction spots, colorful computerized maps showing traffic patterns, and instant messages from a producer giving her informational feeds in shorthand like “RL” (for “right lane”). During free moments, she trades e-mails with a romantically confused friend, listens to a sports podcast and tweets. Then, somehow, just in time, she strides in front of a bright green wall, smiles, and delivers. In addition to reporting for NY1, she files reports for the station’s geographically zoned 24-hour traffic channel and sister station, YNN Hudson Valley. Mr. Kiernan said he had received “tons of positive feedback” about his on-air interactions with Ms. Shupak. Others, he said, “have written in and said, ‘Why is Pat wasting my time flirting with the traffic girl?’ ” For most of its 19 years, NY1 did not have a traffic reporter, relying instead on voiceovers from an outside contractor. That changed in 2010, when the station started the 24-hour traffic and transit channel, available to Time Warner Cable subscribers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island, New Jersey and the Hudson Valley. Ms. Shupak was hired, along with two other traffic reporters, who split the night and weekend shifts. “It was an opportunity,” said Bernie Han, the vice president of news for NY1. “NY1 tends to be very regimented. People like the consistency of weather on the ones and Rail and Road on the eights, but I wanted to introduce a lighter element.” Advertisement It was that element that caught the attention of Noah Callahan-Bever, the editor in chief of Complex and an NY1 watcher. “Pat is so hilarious; he’s so dry,” Mr. Callahan-Bever said. “I obviously noticed that there was a new younger woman that was now sort of razzing him.” Mr. Callahan-Bever tweeted about it, and he and Ms. Shupak got in touch. Her column had its debut in March. “It wouldn’t work for a mostly male audience if she was incredibly bitter or hung up on all the ways she’s been wronged by either her ex or all the men she’s encountered since then,” Mr. Callahan-Bever said. “She is able to have a sense of humor about it, and I think that goes a long way.” Ms. Shupak is no Carrie Bradshaw or Amy Sohn: There are no salacious details. She is at her best when documenting the unique challenges of dating in the age of Twitter and texting, posting cringe-inducing screen grabs of texting exchanges like one from last New Year’s Eve. A sample: Ms. Shupak: I’ll come to u. Tell me where. Man she was interested in: 19th and Park. Are you serious? I just told you twice. JS: K gimme a few. I’ll come to u. Be patient Man: Meet at Hurricane Club JS: Where? I’m there Man: 26th and Park JS: Still there? JS: Where? I’m there. Man: I don’t really have the patience to keep up with your texts. Unfortunately, Ms. Shupak did not gracefully end the conversation there. Nor did she let it go to waste, posting the exchange with hopes that readers might learn just how dangerous “texting under the influence” can be. Talk about news you can use. A version of this article appears in print on October 9, 2011, on Page MB1 of the New York edition with the headline: Stuck in Traffic? A Star Is Born.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 