Advertisement By RICHARD B. WOODWARDDEC. 26, 2004  News articles about the Christmas run-up have in recent years taken a turn for the perverse. While it was once common to feel pity for those who couldn't afford to buy gifts for their children, now we are called upon to fret about the health of our local retailers, many of whom, as reporters constantly remind us, earn as much as one-quarter of their annual income during the year's home stretch. Will they meet last year's numbers? That's the anxious question hanging over the holiday season. With economists saluting the consumer as the hero who enables our high standard of living, we increasingly feel it's our duty to buy things we don't need with cash we don't have. And these days, consumerism and national identity have been linked ever more closely. President Bush implied as much in a speech to Congress on Sept. 20, 2001, in which he urged our "continued participation and confidence in the American economy" in order to help recover from the terrorist attacks. As the journalist Allan Sloan remarked in this newspaper, the president's exhortation "conflated patriotism with shopping. Maxing out your credit cards at the mall wasn't self-indulgence, it was a way to get back at Osama bin Laden." Consumerism in defense of liberty is no crime in America. Indeed, one of the subtexts in The Business of Holidays (Monacelli Press, $35), the glossy collection of amusing, cynical essays edited by Maud Lavin, is that our grossly commercial approach to celebrations, sacred or profane, may be crass, but is ultimately salutary. Entwining ethnic and religious differences with the ritual of spending or making money, our motley calendar of holidays -+Groundhog Day, Presidents' Day, April Fool's Day, Mother's Day, Gay Pride Day, Labor Day, Ramadan, Thanksgiving, Hanukkah, Christmas, Kwanzaa -- is a testament to the bottomless ingenuity of capitalism. For example, in one essay in the collection, Amy Tavormina Fidler writes that the $39.8 billion diet industry now concentrates its advertising on New Year's Day when many women and not a few men traditionally resolve to lose weight. This strategy is diabolically effective because so many of the post-Halloween holidays-including, as she notes, New Year's Day itself -- encourage us to stuff our faces. Within the endless cycle of gorging and purging there's room for everyone to earn a buck. Advertisement Tourists spend an estimated $1 billion in New Orleans during the nearly two-month debauch of Mardi Gras. But perhaps no one has exploited the event more resourcefully than Joe Francis. After studying film and business at the University of Southern California, he built a soft-porn empire with his "Girls Gone Wild" videos. Advertised on television more than 40,000 times a year, the series sold 4.5 million copies in 2002 alone. The beauty of his scheme is that he doesn't have to pay his talent; he need only train his cameras on drunken young women glad to flash their naked breasts at Mardi Gras revelers, an American tradition whose origins remain mysterious. Of course, not everyone has applauded Francis' approach. He's awaiting trial on charges of racketeering and enticing underage girls to do grown-up things. Advertisement National holidays are supposed to dissolve inhibitions and fold isolated individuals into a group. Even holidays that were once declarations of minority pride or separatism have become parties with an open-door policy. Everyone is invited to overindulge on Chinese New Year and St. Patrick's Day. More avocados are sold on Cinco de Mayo than at any time of the year, directly followed by Superbowl Sunday, and only a small fraction are bought by Latinos. Candy and greeting card manufacturers have insinuated themselves into various holiday rites, from Valentine's Day to Easter. Jason Warriner's essay relates the story of Peeps, those tasteless dyed-marshmallow chicks produced since 1953 by the Just Born company in Pennsylvania and now an Easter staple. The cute, ubiquitous confections have also spawned Internet sites offering tips on ways to "torture" a Peep. Mr. Warriner's favorite seems to be "Peeps Jousting": stick toothpicks in a pair of Peeps; place in microwave and set timer for several minutes; whichever Peep engulfs the opponent in hot goo is the winner. (The loser presumably has to scrub out the oven.) Eliza Rosen describes the futile efforts by Jewish leaders over the years to dress up Hanukkah, a holiday of minor religious import, with rituals so that it might compete with the razzle-dazzle of the American Christmas. By the 50's, companies were pushing everything from special blue-and-silver wrapping paper to Hanukkah bushes to Hanukkah bush ornaments. But efforts to preserve a distinct Judaic orbit beyond the gravitational pull of Christmas can be gauged by a 1989 item from a newsletter in Suffern, N.Y. It alerts the community to follow Santa Claus in the parade to "the Village Hall where the menorah lighting will take place."  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday is still largely free of ancillary merchandise. Only nonprofit and education foundations may benefit from his legacy. The King family tightly controls his image and words with regular lawsuits against unlicensed profiteers, and groups like the N.A.A.C.P. have spoken out against any hint of commercialization. Yet the absence of a full-blown consumer aura to the holiday may paradoxically prevent King from assuming his rightful place in the nation's life, alongside Washington and Lincoln. After all, you aren't an American icon until your silhouette can be slapped on a newspaper ad to sell a Toyota. Of course, there has hardly been a time or place when vulgar worldliness didn't mingle with -- or trump -- holy matters. Chaucer appreciated the joys of consumerism. The pilgrims in his tales are on their way to the shrine of the martyred St. Thomas à Becket at Canterbury, but it quickly becomes clear that a good number are making the journey primarily to eat and drink, slip marital bonds, and swap stories with strangers. Organized religion has always needed revelers. Victor Hugo's "Notre Dame de Paris" opens on January 6, 1482, during Three Kings Day and the Feast of Fools. Hugo imagines the scene as a wild religious carnival, with bonfires and a maypole, that is less about prayer than whoop-de-do. Innkeepers are often just as necessary. In Iraq earlier this year the merchants in Najaf couldn't wait for Muqtada al-Sadr and his armed men to vacate the city. Their belligerent presence was ruining the local economy, which relies heavily on income from streams of penitents to the Shia shrines. Americans may have come late to the time-honored tradition of making money on any occasion of the year, but they've certainly embraced it with gusto. In "The Business of Holidays," Alyson Priestap-Beaton writes about Festivus, the holiday invented by George Costanza's father on an episode of "Seinfeld." Celebrated on Dec. 23, in response to the materialism of Christmas, it allows friends to air grievances and "demonstrate feats of strength" by hanging in the air while holding on to a bare silver pole, the holiday's only decoration. There is nothing to buy. This didn't stop Ben & Jerry's from capitalizing on the show's immense popularity in 1999 by briefly introducing an ice-cream flavor called Festivus. Festivus is still observed by fans around the country, not to mention memorialized in this book and on the "Seinfeld" DVD's. That a fictional, anticommercial holiday on a television show "about nothing" would inspire a real holiday and a real product is more than a little bizarre. America's relentless consumption and frivolity may be one reason why the world envies and hates us. But for better or worse, that's who we are. Happy Festivus! We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 