A man told his neighbor, “I just bought a new hearing aid. It cost me four thousand dollars, but it’s state of the art. It’s perfect.”  “Really?” said the neighbor. “What kind is it?” “Twelve thirty,” he replied. That joke, courtesy of the Web site www.goofball.com, speaks to a sad reality for people with hearing loss. For many of them, hearing aids just don’t work all that well. They pick up background noise, squeal with feedback, can’t be used over the telephone and are all but impossible to wear in a restaurant. Many people quit using them in frustration. That’s why I was so surprised to hear about a hearing aid that people like. Shortly after the New York Giants won the Superbowl, I learned about Mike Waufle, the Giants’ defensive line coach who uses an extended wear hearing aid — and he doesn’t hate it. I wrote about Coach Waufle’s experience in today’s Science Times. Read about Coach Waufle here, and then join the discussion below. Do you or someone you know use a hearing aid? Has it made your life better, or do you hate it? Comments are no longer being accepted. So if people hate hearing aids, they don’t have to use them. I lost 26 percent of my hearing in the army … then I grew old. I bought a hearing aid. Nearly $3K. It sits on my nightstand gathering dust. Now I’m returning to the classroom and must have deafness moderation. Sounds great if you have plenty of money. How can health insurance not cover hearing aids? Seems like it would be tough for people on a fixed income.  I know things will change when this product is more widely distributed, but this part about getting to the clinic is ridiculous. “Some patients who don’t live near a clinic simply fly or drive to a site four or five times a year.” Simply fly somewhere 4-5 times per year? Should be called “Elite” instead of Lyric. FROM TPP — All hearing aids are pretty expensive as is most medical care. The travesty is that hearing isn’t valued enough to be covered by insurance. Sounds great but how does it function for those of us who produce large amounts of ear wax, a problem normally enhanced by the presence of a hearing aid (i.e., a foreign body) in the ear? Also, I’d be interested to learn more about the total cost of the lyric, including initial fitting. FROM TPP — The subscription covers everything. ANd yes, extra ear wax just means you have to change it more. I’ve been using hearing aids (both ears) for the past 35 or so years, and I have a love-hate relationship with them. On the one hand they’re an annoying hunk of wires and plastic, always going bad at the wrong time.  I’ve learned the importance of carrying spare batteries wherever I go, and to change them as inobtrusively as possible.  Plus, while they do help improve my hearing, there still are sounds which I cannot hear.  Unlike eyeglasses, which correct my vision to normal, hearing aids improve but never correct my hearing. On the other hand, I simply cannot function without them.  They have made possible a quality of life which wouldn’t otherwise exist.  Those who fuss and fume about the inadequacies of hearing aids might try going without them for a week. The key, in my experience, is finding a provider who can be trusted, who is up to speed with the latest technology, and who has a private practice rather than a franchise.  That’s easier said than done, but everything begins with the provider. I’m anxious to follow the progress of the new Lyric as it moves into the mainstream.  Please keep us posted. First I have to get rid of my tinnitus. Does the Lyric help with this?  FROM TPP — We just wrote a story about this. Click HERE to read. I am 34 year old hearing impaired woman, and yes, I wear hearing aids in most ears. The thing I hate most about them is the whistling when I speak on my cell phone – I actually have to take it out and listen with my naked ear, which is not impossible with the kind of hearing loss I have but very challenging nonetheless. It can be dangerous to remove a hearing aid in the street – it’s so small that you can easily drop it into a sewer or a puddle or even step on it. I’ve come close to doing these things. Cosmetically, they are very unattractive too – I am married now but when I was dating I was very self-conscious about them, and don’t even get me started on what it was like when I was an adolescent. Oh, and they make my ears itch. So do I hate them? Sometimes. But I am also grateful for this technology that enables me to live a relatively normal life. My hearing loss would be completely debilitating without them. My father, who is now 85, has been totally deaf in one year for many years, and has profound hearing loss in the other. He is unable to hear at all without a hearing aid, and the ones he uses now are (as I understand it) simple amplification devices, with not much selective amplification at particular frequencies because of the extent of his hearing loss. At the same time, as when more than one person speaks at a time, much of what he hears sounds like noise to him, and even appears to cause him physical pain. He is always on the lookout for a new hearing aid, but is often told that the state of the art technology in hearing aids would present no improvement to his hearing. Would the new Lyric be of use to him? I’ve been wearing two HAs for several years. I can hear better, but not well. Terribly frustrating. I have two different devices.  Left is a resound “open” device and the other a Resound in-the-canal. I have been advised pro and con about two different devices at the same timw.  Generally by an audiologist who would like to sell me two more.  At the cost of these things I can’t afford to experiment.  Any thoughts on using two different devices? Pay a subscription–why that word–of up to $3600 a year? I heard that loud and clear! Tara: The Lyric must be removed by a “hook” not a Magnet.  The Magnet is used to set the level of amplification of the device or turn it off.  I have worn the Lyric as a test subject in 2 ttrials.  My ear channels are narrow.  I removed the first one within 24 hours and the second one in 1 week.  I could not stand it. There were abrasions in my one  test ear after a week.   A year later, I was called in again to try a different device.  Success! One Lyric went dead within hours.  But the other was much more comfortable and I was able to wear it successfully for the trial.   The sound is still “tinny” compared to normal hearing.  I heard more than I wanted to hear or needed to hear with the device in place.   The ear with Lyric gets very itchy. After weeks of wear, there is a lot of Junk trapped in the ear channel. It would have been ideal if I could have removed it periodically to clean the ear.  But it is inserted/removed by a professional.  I wear hard contact lens and I like being able to insert/remove aids as needed.  I would turn the Lyric up when I needed to hear conversations and I would turn it down when I was by myself.  I like that feature alot. If someone can stand the itch and needs to hear well every day in different situations, it is well worth it.   Regards, Anna Reuter Palo Alto, California It was recently suggested by a doctor that my grandmother research options for hearing aids. She opted for one that cost $4,000, but is still slightly uncomfortable wearing it, especially because she is used to only speaking to my grandfather because she doesn’t like going out in public anymore without hearing well. The new hearing aid still causes her problems – she can’t hear the television despite the volume and it bothers her when talking on the phone to her grandchildren. Like others, she is trying it out for the “trial period” but will probably return them and get a refund… I’ve been waiting decades for the Baby Boomer market clout to kick in on the hearing aid issue. The hearing aid industry is a scam.  They sell products for thousands of dollars that should only cost a couple hundred.  The extremely high profit margins are obvious when you see full page ads for a clinic…You can’t afford that unless you’re making lots of money.  And then the next travisty is the insurance industry that refuses to cover these overly expensive crude devices.  The Boomers will find a way to overcome both! I have worn a hearing aid since the age of 4.  I am now 46 years old and wear 2 aids.  My hearing has worsened over the years and in 2001, I adopted a dog to become my service animal.  Puffy is a Bichon Frise pooch.  For those who say that bichons are not service animals, I beg to differ.  The smallness of the breed as well as hearing sounds that I cannot make Puffy a well behaved dog for me.  He was certified when he was 14 weeks old and he was just 7 years old last November 2007. I am 35 and wear hearing aids in both ears. I have worn them for about 4 or 5 years now. Just after borrowing the money to buy my hearing aids, I was able to accept a job that required me to take meeting minutes; I couldn’t have done that job without my hearing aids. As a result of that job, and the ability to finally hear my lecturers in university, I have advanced my career.  But as great as they are, my hearing aids are not perfect.  • I still can’t hear many sounds, and some sounds I hear too well. • Restaurants and concerts make hearing my companions nearly impossible unless I remove my hearing aids.(There’s an article, by the way, in why restaurants don’t cater to people who like quiet.) • I still miss or misunderstand many words in casual conversation. (Sometimes this is amusing, sometimes this is embarrassing, sometimes this is dangerous.) • I get ear infections. (I have to plug my ears in the bath and shower, and must use a vinegar and rubbing alcohol solution to help prevent the infections.) • Cell phones can cause painful and annoying feedback. Having said all that, as a result of ear infections or necessary repairs, I have had to stop wearing my hearing aids for weeks. Without the hearing aids, conversations with friends were difficult, sirens were impossible to hear (instead of just difficult), and I felt like I was greatly isolated from the world. I also had to explain more often to strangers and remind friends that they must look at me when they are talking to me. This necessary explaination was both embarrassing and exasperating for me.  I would love to try these new Lyric hearing aids, but sadly, I will probably never be able to afford the “subscription” price of as much as $3600. It’s too bad that hearing is a privilege, not a right, and not even partially covered by my insurance.  Then again, maybe the ability of this company to cater only to the rich, charging outlandish amounts of money, is what prompted this innovation. I would say that I hope I am still alive when the price comes down enough to be affordable, but hearing aid prices seem to defy the normal price models for technology. I am very sorry to know that I will probably never be able to experience the new Lyric hearing device, but I am glad that I could borrow enough money from a family member to make my life better with the hearing aids I have. Ah – another health advance which will be available only to the affluent.   I am grateful to have the use of hearing aids so that I can continue to teach, but, no, I don’t love them, they form a barrier only slightly less than the barrier of not hearing. All jokes aside. Don’t kid yourself. Get the hearing checked, and get hearing aid(s), if you need them, and can afford them. Falling rain drops, rustling leaves, ringing bells and phone rings will sound sweeter, and your wife/girlfriend will sound much better. Yes, there are problems, as they are with any device mechanical. Sometimes I have to remove the hearing aid in order to hear better, they do whistle, and are inexplicably expensive, and become obsolete in 3-4 years. Still, I would not like to go without them. Even this computer keyboard sounds much better with hearing aids. Great comments; especially by the woman who was a Lyric test subject.  This solves a problem for a very small segment of the market; those who can afford it and those whose ear canals can tolerate it.  The bigger problem is getting over the stigma associated with hearing loss, not the further concealment of it.  I have a behind-the-ear aid with a cobalt blue metalflake ear mold that I have pierced so I can wear dangly ornaments.  It currently sports a safety pin.  See it at hearingaidsrcool.blogspot.com.  In-the-ear and behind-the-ear aids work marvellously, especially when paired with bluetooth compatibility and FM remote systems, like the SmartLink.  We need to move past the shame of hearing loss and start being smart consumers of technology, without worrying about whether it “shows.” I’ve worn hearing aids since the age of 5, and I’m now 28 years old. In those 23 years I’ve had 4 sets of hearing aids. I find it very patronizing to go to an audiologist and have them trying to push a new model on me every time I go. I understand that the technology is improving with each passing year, but as a young professional in New York, I simply can’t afford to shell out several thousand dollars every few years on hearing aids–although I also can’t afford to live without them. The bottom line is hearing aids are just an aid; they aren’t a solution to the affliction of hearing loss. I wish the world of audiology would turn their focus to hair cell regeneration instead of pushing expensive hearing aids onto people. There’s no substitute for real hearing– at some point in my life, I would love to experience it again! Your article was personally interesting.  I couldn’t tell what kind of hearing loss Coach Waufle has.  There is no generic type of hearing aid for hearing loss. My four year old Phonak Perseo BTE hearing aids vastly improved my hearing.  I don’t hate them but they are not without many challenges.  These include being at the mercy of the audiologist doing the programming, having to remove them to shower and swim, keeping them in a dehydrator at night.  The things were expensive–over $4000 for the pair–and they were only guaranteed for 3 years.  So with my present aids nearing the end of their life, I jumped on the article to find an alternative.  Except for the cost (Yikes!) and their extended use option, your article was not very helpful. Well, I recently got two hearing aids.  Although I have some hearing loss, it is not severe, just annoying at times–for others and for myself.  The problem is that I don’t wear them!  I simply cannot seem to get in the habit of putting them in everyday.  Some days I am just at home all day feeling like I don’t need them, and then when I do go out, I forget about them.  They were very expensive, so I’m upset about this.  I’m going to keep trying, but I’m not sure what to do about this. Thanks for a cogent, reasonably comprehensive article on a burgeoning “boomer” issue and social problem. Hearing loss is isolation personally, exclusion professionally for many. Truly an American scandal that it isn’t “treated” as the occupational [and insurable] handicap that it is. The hearing aid sales business is amazing.  Where else can you look for a product that costs $3000 -$6000, not be able to try it on first, and have a “restocking fee of $400 if you want to return it. My audiologist (ex-audiologist) is in a major NYC hospital. I recently went to get my $3000 (one ear) Diva replaced. He immediately wanted to sell me at BTE pair for about $5,000 and tolde all the things that were wrong with the Diva, which he could have told me three year ago when I bought it.  I’m about to take a chance with a web company that offers a full refund and a resonable trial period. The New York audiologist never tested the Diva in my ear;  so I don’t see any problem of letting the web company do it, based on a hearing test sent from  New York.  We’ll see. To those who wear hearing aids: Is it possible to enjoy music (classical, especially) with them?  FROM TPP — The last anecdote in my story was from someone who was listening to an orchestra and thrilled to hear all the notes, including the triangle. Tara, thanks for this space to make comments on this article. As someone who has worn hearing aids for about a decade now, their lousy reputation is mostly deserved. They are generally very expensive and even the newer ones amplify all sounds, sometimes making for sometimes painful hearing experiences. The new Lyric hearing aid is no panacea for those of us with serious or “profound” losses. Ann in comment #11 gives us a somewhat more balanced look at the pros and cons of this new device. It will only be appropriate for a subset of those with hearing losses. Having said that, I have been waiting for the boomers and older members of the  Silicon Valley techie crowd to start exploring the design and manufacture of new, innovative hearing technologies. One that I can imagine that may be in reach soon is what I will call the Robo-speech-detection glasses. Here is how it would work. A small microphone or two would pick up the speech of the person you are listening to. A small set of microprocessors would turn that speech into text. That text would be shown either at the bottom (or the top, your choice) as scrolling words on the lenses of a pair of glasses you would wear.  As you watched the person speak, you could glance down to help decipher words you could not understand. Later, translations of foreign languages may be possible with such an approach. Such glasses would alleviate embarrassing conversational lapses those of us with profound hearing losses must now suffer even with hearing amplification.  To Don in comment #9: you should go to a good audiologist for a consult. Wearing two different types of hearing aids seems odd to me, but your hearing problems may lie elsewhere. You may even want to go to a good eye, ear, nose and throat doctor who has audiology testing equipment. Finally, to susan in comment #21. Your hearing loss may not be severe enough yet for you to begin wearing your hearing aids. Also, you may be in denial of your problem. I still was in denial about my hearing loss well into my 5th year of knowing about it and wearing hearing aids. It is a blow to our egos, and a reminder of what we have lost as youth slips away. And hearing loss carries quite a stigma with in our society. Your health questions answered by Times journalists and experts. Your Questions | All » Get Well's Running email for practical tips, expert advice, exclusive content and a bit of motivation delivered to your inbox every week to help you on your running journey. Coming soon. Advertisement 