Advertisement By KATHRYN SHATTUCKJAN. 30, 2013  9 P.M. (13, 49) WHO KILLED LINDBERGH’S BABY? On March 1, 1932, Charles and Anne Lindbergh’s 20-month-old son, above, was kidnapped from the family’s home near Hopewell, N.J. Negotiations stretched out for weeks, but the boy was never returned. His body was found two months later less than five miles from Hopewell, and, after a two-year investigation, Bruno Richard Hauptmann, a German immigrant living in the Bronx, was ultimately found guilty of extortion and murder. He was executed on April 3, 1936. This “Nova” episode reopens the case as investigators use contemporary forensic and behavioral-science techniques to determine what really happened to the child, and why. 9 A.M. (CUNY) LIVING FOR 32 (2010) “City Talk” presents this documentary, directed by Kevin Breslin and produced by Maria Cuomo Cole, about Colin Goddard, a survivor of the 2007 Virginia Tech massacre, and his work with the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence. Afterward Doug Muzzio moderates a discussion with Jeremy Travis, the president of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York. 11 A.M. (USA) THE GOLDEN COMPASS (2007) There’s an entire bestiary at the heart of this fantasy, based on a novel by Philip Pullman, about Lyra (Dakota Blue Richards, below), an orphan in a parallel universe who sets out on a quest to save her best friend from undergoing horrible experiments at a mysterious institution. Nicole Kidman glides across the screen like liquid gold in the role of Mrs. Coulter, whose expressionless beauty masks her evil designs. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called this film, directed by Chris Weitz, “an honorable work” that was “hampered by its fealty to the book and its madly rushed pace, which forces you to dash through the story like Lord Asriel” (Lyra’s uncle, an explorer, played by Daniel Craig). 3 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) BABY MAMA (2008) Kate (Tina Fey) is a career woman who decides to have a baby with a surrogate, the decidedly free-spirited Angie (Amy Poehler), in this comedy directed by Michael McCullers. “Much like the prickly, talented Ms. Fey,” the film “pulls you in with a provocative and, at least in current American movies, unusual mix of female intelligence, awkwardness and chilled-to-the-bone mean,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. Advertisement 8 P.M. (CBS) SUPER BOWL’S GREATEST COMMERCIALS 2013 Boomer Esiason and Aisha Tyler host this interactive program in which viewers will vote at cbs.com/superbowl for their favorite advertisement of all time.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT Assistant District Attorney Barba (Raúl Esparza) tangles with a deceptively tough defense lawyer (Nia Vardalos) after he files charges against a man who viciously attacks other men. Advertisement 9 P.M. (Travel) SUPER BOWL TAILGATE TAKEOVER Adam Richman and his crew build two elaborate tailgate rigs before traveling to N.F.L. games. 10 P.M. (Style) HOLLYWOOD HOUSE CALLS WITH CAT DEELEY Ms. Deeley (“So You Think You Can Dance”) tours the West Hollywood home of Carmelo Anthony of the Knicks and his wife, La La. In “Celebrity Closet Confidential,” at 10:30, the stylist Mary Alice Haney adds sophistication to the wardrobe of LeAnn Rimes. 10 P.M. (TV Land) HOT IN CLEVELAND Elka (Betty White) becomes the agent of Victoria (Wendie Malick). 10:30 P.M. (TV Guide) A PERFECT MURDER (1998) Steven Taylor (Michael Douglas), a reptilian Wall Street bond salesman about to lose his shirt, plots to kill his wife, Emily (Gwyneth Paltrow, below with Mr. Douglas), and inherit her fortune in this update of Frederick Knott’s play (and Alfred Hitchcock’s film) “Dial M for Murder.” Viggo Mortensen portrays Emily’s lover, whom Steven offers $500,000 to do the deed or be exposed for the con man and gigolo he really is. “The creepiest aspect of ‘A Perfect Murder’ is that there really is no contest between love and money,” Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. “The movie is right in tune with the icy Darwinian mood fostered by the booming late-’90s economy.” KATHRYN SHATTUCK A version of this schedule appears in print on January 30, 2013, on Page C8 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Today.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 