 Monday is Budget Day, when President Obama releases his $3.7 trillion budget valentine. But first, The Caucus has assembled a look at some of the best quotes of the weekend. 1. Saturday Night Live took aim at Fox News host Bill O’Reilly‘s interview with President Obama before the Superbowl. The skit depicts Mr. O’Reilly as a know-nothing bully who at one point yells at Mr. Obama to stay in his seat. And it makes fun of the host’s tendency to insist he’s right, even when he’s not. After insisting that the president of Afghanistan is Muammar el-Qaddafi, he tells Mr. Obama: “Mr. President, I like you. You’re a good guy and I truly believe as president, you’re doing the best you can for the country. But I’m pretty sure its Qaddafi.” (It’s Hamid Karzai.) 2. Haley Barbour, the Republican governor of Mississippi and a potential presidential candidate in 2012, did not try to shy away from his former occupation as a lobbyist during an interview Sunday. “I’m a lobbyist,” he said on Fox News Sunday. “The guy who gets elected president will immediately be lobbying. That’s what presidents do for a living.” Mr. Barbour still receives what he called “retirement” income from the lobbying firm he helped found, Barbour, Griffith and Rogers. 3. Most of the likely Republican candidates for president have remained quiet about the events in Egypt. But Tim Pawlenty, the former Republican governor of Minnesota, said on ABC’s “This Week” program on Sunday that Mr. Obama needs to do more to make sure the Muslim Brotherhood doesn’t take control in that country. “The president of the United States ducked the question whether he thought it was a good or a bad idea whether the Muslim Brotherhood should be running Egypt,” Mr. Pawlenty said. “I’m telling you: It’s a bad idea. And we need to do whatever we can to minimize and — the likelihood of that outcome.” 4. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader in the Senate, declared Saturday night that “the legislative agenda of Barack Obama is over.” He made the remark, according to the Associated Press, during a speech in Louisville, Kentucky at the state party’s Lincoln Days Dinner. Mr. McConnell is known for quips like that. Last year, he famously said that it was his “number one priority” to make sure that Mr. Obama remained a one-term president. 5. Representative Allen West of Florida is just a freshman member of Congress. But he snagged the final speaking slot of the Conservative Political Action Committee on Saturday. He offered a passionate defense of conservatism: “Liberal progressivism evolved after our Constitution,” he said. “It has repeatedly failed all over the world so why do we think it could be successful here in the United States of America?” Mr. West is African American and questioned what he called “hostile attacks from the liberal left” that characterize conservatives as racist. “Perhaps they should see who is standing up here as your keynote speaker.” 6. He’s relatively new to the job, but this is Jacob Lew‘s day. As President Obama’s budget director, Mr. Lew on Monday is responsible for overseeing the rollout of the $3.7 trillion budget proposal. Over the weekend, on CNN, Mr. Lew described it as “a very difficult budget” and took aim at those — including Republicans — who say there’s more that could be cut, easily. “We’re beyond the easy, low-hanging fruit, to say that it’s all waste and fraud,” he said. The latest on President Obama, Congress and other political news from Washington -- and around the nation -- from the staff of The New York Times.      The Caucus on Monday suspended its campaign. Follow First Draft, a fast-paced political briefing on all things Washington and elections. Read more…     Congress approved funding for equipping Syrian rebels against Islamic States and lawmakers will discuss their votes on several of the Sunday shows.Read more…     President Obama vowed to “degrade and ultimately destroy” ISIS in a speech he gave on Wednesday. Lawmakers and analysts will discuss his strategy on the Sunday shows. Read more…     Lawmakers will weigh in on President Obama’s international coalition to fight Islamist militants.Read more…     President Obama drew criticism on Thursday when he said, “we don’t have a strategy yet,” for military action against ISIS in Syria. Lawmakers will weigh in on Mr. Obama’s comments on the Sunday shows.Read more… Follow Advertisement 