Steve Jobs and Jeff Bezos may be rivals in the music sales business, but between them they have forced the music industry to abandon digital rights management—the software that limits how you copy songs you buy and download.  Apple began the assault last February, with a letter by Steve Jobs arguing that D.R.M. should be eliminated. Ultimately EMI, one of the major music labels, agreed to sell its music without restrictions through iTunes. In the fall, Amazon opened a download store selling music in unrestricted MP3 format from EMI, Universal and a bunch of independent labels. Warner Music said it would start selling unrestricted music last month.  And today, BusinessWeek reports that Sony BMG, the fourth major label will also drop D.R.M. A Sony BMG spokesman declined all comment on the topic. But it’s easy to see that it may well find itself in an untenable position as the lone D.R.M. holdout.  There are two events that may press the labels to change D.R.M. policies. First Amazon and Pepsi are preparing to do a huge giveaway of digital downloads in a contest tied to the Superbowl.  Steve Jobs will make his annual presentation at the MacWorld Expo, which might be a great time for him to announce that all the music sold by iTunes will be D.R.M. free.  Edgar Bronfman, the chief executive of Warner Music, wrote an interesting memo to his employees explaining the change of heart. He would have preferred if Apple, Microsoft and other technology companies agreed on a single format for digital rights management. That would allow customers to buy restricted songs from, say, iTunes, and move them later to a Microsoft Zune. With Mr. Jobs opposed to this approach, selling unprotected music is a vastly simple way to offer the same experience (or better).  There’s even greater pressure, of course, from the business itself. Nielsen SoundScan, a market research service, said today that sales of CDs and other physical music media fell by 15 percent in 2007. Sales of digital tracks rose, by  45 percent.  Eliminating D.R.M. won’t save the music industry, but it will eliminate one objection to paying for downloads. Comments are no longer being accepted. And as music has gone, hopefully so will go video.  But probably not in my lifetime.  As the number of hoops we have to jump through to play music goes down, the number of hoops on the video side just goes up and up. Music companies mostly don’t understand: People will PAY for the convenience of downloading easily and quickly, but will NOT pay for the actual content. This, Apple understands.  Look at how easy it is to use the iTunes Music Store. 99 cents is just the right price for the convenience of getting the music you want, rather than borrowing a CD from a friend, or stealing a digital file from the internet or somewhere else. It’s the CONVENIENCE, and the music publishers will have to adjust (painfully) their business models to match. I hope the music majors (besides EMI) will permit Apple to sell DRM free music:  so far they have been using DRM to created a pro-Amazon playing field, hoping that there will be real competition to iTunes.   I’d love nothing better better than having DRM free, 256 kbit AAC  being sold across the board on iTunes — certainly my music purchases would go up greatly — finally regret free impulse buying will be possible. I just hope the music industry makes it possible for me to give them more of my money. The issue has never been about content, it’s about who controls distribution.  The major labels want to control the distribution channels and they have been stuck in the old pattern of doing business.  Had they made music available DRM free 10 years ago, Napster and file sharing would never have gained a foothold and they would be making more money. It’s the classic case of the old model using the law to hinder development of a new and more profitable business model. It was videos and video rental that saved the movie industry despite their attempts to block the sale of VCRs.  Plus ca change…… The record companies have gone completely nuts. First of all, they created the whole Napster phenomenon by being asleep at the switch as the capabilities of the digital world were born. Now that digital delivery is killing physical delivery, they want to enhance the marketability of their digital content by making adding a new feature: making it easier for the consumer to engage in intellectual property conspiracy, i.e., aiding and abetting their (the consumers) friends in the theft of the DRM-free song!! Now that’s just brilliant!!  I suspect a few years from now, the labels (assuming they are not all bankrupt) will see the error of their ways and band together to promulgate one DRM system and implement it. As a songwriter who makes a living from my intellectual property–my songs, I am tired of being ripped off by a world of consumers that don’t seem to understand that copying CDs and giving them away or peer-to-peer sharing of songs constitutes theft and I’m disgusted with the record labels’ stupidity and bungling with respect to DRM and the protection of my intellectual property!! rhymedawg Nashville Follow Advertisement 