The Breakfast MeetingWhat’s making news in media.The Komen foundation, the nation’s leading breast cancer advocacy organization, found itself facing a furor, and a mutiny among its local chapters, as the Internet buzzed with reaction to the group’s decision to largely end its partnership with Planned Parenthood. The foundation said the decision had nothing to do with politics or abortion, but critics and a former board member disagreed, Jennifer Preston and Gardiner Harris reported. Like the Internet-led protest against antipiracy legislation, the controversy showed how social networking “can change the national conversation with head-snapping speed,” they wrote. What’s making news in media. The year 2012 — or XLVI, if you prefer — will be known for “Super Bowl ad creep,” Stuart Elliott reports. Companies used to try to build anticipation, holding back the ads for their debut during the big game; this year, by some estimates, almost half of the 50-plus commercials that are scheduled to appear in the Super Bowl are already online in one form or another, including anticipated ones from Volkswagen and Honda. The idea, he writes, is to move “the water-cooler conversation that takes place after the game to before the game.” On the news that Facebook had filed for a multibillion-dollar initial public offering, Somini Sengupta looks at how Mark Zuckerberg managed to control so much of the company — almost 60 percent of voting shares. It is more than other tech entrepreneurs typically managed to retain before they went public, including Bill Gates (49 percent) and the co-founders of Google (16 percent each). His strategy, she writes: “Remain in charge, stave off potential predators and expand the company so quickly that no one can challenge the boss.” After reports, including in The Times, had Donald Trump endorsing Newt Gingrich in time for the Nevada caucuses, Mr. Trump held a news conference to support Mitt Romney. He was on his best behavior, Mark Leibovich writes, and said simply: “He’s not going to allow bad things to continue to happen to this country that we all love.” Mr. Romney may have best summed up the surreal scene, framed by gold plating, at Mr. Trump’s casino: “There are some things that you can’t imagine happening in your life,” he said. “And this is one of them.”     The Fox network announced four new dramas and five new comedies it has ordered for the next television season.Read more…     The New York Times’ Media news can now be found at the Media & Advertising section front.Read more…     David Zinczenko, the former Rodale executive who wrote the “Eat This, Not That” series, will write three books on exercise, diet and nutrition, and form a new imprint, Zinc Ink.Read more…     The race, ethnicity and culture reporting in NPR’s series “Changing Races” is part of the network’s strategy to “do better about mirroring America,” the chief executive says.Read more…     The Emmy-winning actor may replace Carson Daly in a late-night half hour interview program, according to one executive involved in the network’s program planning.Read more… Follow Advertisement 