The recent monster slam-dunk by Blake Griffin of the Los Angeles Clippers has ignited exactly the kind of debate the Internet does so well. (No, I don’t mean “Which ‘Parks and Recreation’ quote goes best with this screengrab from ‘Downton Abbey’?”) The debate: Is Griffin’s dunk the best of all time? In fact, the Griffin dunk debate quickly traversed a familiar hyberbolic trajectory: from “Is this the dunk of the year?” to “Is this Blake Griffin’s best dunk ever?” to “Is this the best dunk of all time?” to “This is not even in the top 20 dunks of all time.” Which is why it’s handy, in such situations, to apply what I like to call the Shakespeare/Beatles/Einstein rule, or, for short, the Shakesbeatlestein Principle. The Shakesbeatlestein Principle applies when there is an obvious, unimpeachable and inarguable answer to the question, “What is the best [blank] ever?” For example: Who is the greatest writer of all time? Shakespeare. What is the greatest pop band of all time? The Beatles. Who is the greatest genius of all time? Einstein. This is not to say that these answers are objectively correct. Only that they are the rare result of an unspoken communal coalescence around a single answer. Other categories, by contrast, offer no Shakesbeatlestein. For example, greatest American novel. Your mind might jump immediately to “Moby Dick” or “The Great Gatsby” or “Invisible Man” — but that’s the point. You could make a case for any number of candidates. The question is an argument-starter, not an argument-ender. Ergo, no Shakesbeatlestein. There are three qualifications to be considered a Shakesbeatlestein: 1. The answer is an acknowledged consensus choice. You know that saying in sports, “The road to the Superbowl goes through Green Bay” (or New England, or New York, or which ever city’s team last won)? Well, the road to Greatest Pop Band Ever goes through the Beatles. Sure, you could zag while the world zigs and say “The Clash” or “The Rolling Stones” or, I don’t know, “The La’s,” then offer some esoteric argument to back it up. That is precisely what makes these debates fun. But the fact is that what you’re actually doing is giving an answer of “Not the Beatles.” And you’ll have to defend your decision not to choose them. The same holds true for “Who is the greatest writer of all time?” It’s Shakespeare, obviously. You want to make a case for Keats? Joyce? Toni Morrison? Dame Barbara Cartland? Using some complex, turn-conventional-wisdom-on-its-head approach? Go ahead. But then it’s not a debate so much as it’s a case study in self-conscious contrarianism. 2. The answer has become a de facto synonym for the attribute in question. When you want to taunt a precocious child about his or her intellect, you don’t say: “Who do you think you are? Some kind of Nikola Tesla?” No. You say: “What do you think you are? Einstein?” Similarly, when you’re madly scribbling away on some literary masterpiece, your adoring mother isn’t going to point at you and say, “Such a little Wordsworth!” You are such a little Shakespeare, or you are nothing at all. 3. The answer is the first suggestion when you Google the question. Go ahead. Type “Greatest writer of all time” into Google. But back to Blake Griffin. In the greatest-dunk-of-all-time argument, I’d argue that there is, in fact, a Shakesbeatlestein: The Vince Carter dunk over Frederic Weis at the 2000 Olympics. Don’t take my word for it; the experts agree. Or you could just judge for yourself:  The question, then, is what other cultural figures/products/events can rightly be called Shakesbeatlesteins? Offhand, I can nominate a few:  Shakesbeatlestein actor: Sir Laurence Olivier. (Proud parents at school pageants everywhere are heard to exclaim: “Look at my little Olivier!”) However, you could make a case, I believe, for Meryl Streep, who has become the American/cinematic exemplar of acting prowess. (“Who do you think you are? Meryl Streep?”) Shakesbeatlestein sex-symbol: Marilyn Monroe. What, you’re going to pick someone other than Marilyn Monroe? Then you’re going to have to spend some time explaining why you didn’t pick Marilyn Monroe. Shakesbeatlestein best pop song of the 1990s: “Smells Like Teen Spirit.” The greatest song of the 1980s, for example, or the greatest song of the 2000s, are both rightly matters of contention. But you can’t not choose “Teen Spirit” as the greatest song of the 1990s — or, if you do, you’re basically doing it for the sole reason of reaffirming that you are that much cooler than everyone else. Shakesbeatlestein basketball player: Michael Jordan. Greatest ever. This is accepted wisdom. Perhaps as time passes and memories of his accomplishments fade and Michael Jordan continues to dress like this, that will change. But for now: Greatest basketball player = Jordan. Period. You could, in fact, argue for the necessity of a second complimentary term, which refers to something that is quite obviously the runner-up to the best thing of all time, a kind of Shakesbeatlestein sidekick. You’d call this “The Pippen.” The Rolling Stones are the Pippen. Shakesbeatlestein living American novelist: Philip Roth briefly seemed destined for Shakesbeatlestein status, but now even Time magazine, which anointed him as such, no longer agrees with Time magazine on this front. Shakesbeatlestein TV show: For a while, “The Sopranos” was a strong candidate, back when people were not only calling it the best show of all time but the best anything ever of ever. However, you could now find people making entirely plausible cases for  “The Wire,” “Breaking Bad,” or even a darkhorse, currently shelved comedy. What are some other Shakebeatlestains? Not things you think are the best, necessarily, but things you think everyone has universally embraced as the best. This could mean music, books, food, sports, fashion, etc. Is there a Shakesbeatlestein classical composer? A Shakesbeatlestein stand-up comedian? A Shakesbeatlestein poet? A Shakesbeatlestein chef? In a related story, the only way to unseat a Shakebeatlestein is to trick that person into saying “Shakebeatlestein” three times. Shakesbeatlestein! Shakesbeatlestein! Shakesbeatlestein! I hope someone tries this at the Oscars with Meryl Streep. Latest Issue | October 19, 2014The men of Wellesley College, the oligarching of American politics, Cristela Alonzo's family-focused sitcom and more. The 6th Floor is the blog of The New York Times Magazine, where staff members — editors, designers, writers, photo editors and researchers — share ideas, arguments, curiosities and links.     Here, a few of the most romantic kisses in film, from young love to foiled love.Read more…     Sometimes a kiss in cinema signals stormy weather; sometimes it signals clear skies.Read more…     Not every kiss is an act of love. In some cases, it’s an act of aggression.Read more…     Bruce Grierson wrote this week’s cover story about Ellen Langer, a Harvard psychologist who has conducted experiments that involve manipulating environments to turn back subjects’ perceptions of their own age.Read more…     In the comments to Mark Leibovich’s article about Mitt Romney, readers debated whether the former nominee should consider another run for the presidency.Read more… Follow Advertisement 