Harold Ford Jr., the former Tennessee congressman and unsuccessful candidate for Senate last year, took over as chairman of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council today.  He succeeds Tom Vilsack, the former governor of Iowa, who plans to spend the next year or so running for president. Bill Clinton, Joe Lieberman, Dick Gephardt, Sam Nunn, Evan Bayh and John Breaux, all of whom harbored presidential ambitions at one time or another, are all past chairmen of the D.L.C. At least one of them became president. At a breakfast for reporters in Washington, Mr. Ford said all the requisite centrist Democratic things about taxes and trade and education and health care. He said that Democrats should not shy away from talking about their faith, as long as it is genuine. He chastised Republican hypocrites (unnamed, alas) who wear their faith on their sleeves while sinning in private. “Those who preach it the most are not always practicing the most,” he said. “I pray for all of them.” Although he clearly did not want to relive last year’s Senate campaign, a race he lost to Bob Corker, one reporter asked him if he planned to attend this year’s Superbowl. You’ll remember the devastating television advertisement that Republicans took out against Mr. Ford late in the Tennessee campaign in which a bare-shouldered bimbo says she met Mr. Ford at the Playboy party at the Superbowl and asked him to (wink) “Call me.” The young woman was white; Mr. Ford is African-American. Mr. Ford smiled (grimaced?) and said, in a variation on his line last year, “I love Jesus, I love girls and I absolutely love football.” He didn’t say whether he had a ticket to this year’s game between the Colts and the Bears. He Ford chose not to delve into his views on the role race played in last year’s Senate campaign or elaborate on what advice he might have for Senator Barack Obama, who is seeking the presidency. He said only, “Run hard and be honest and put it in the voters’ hands. That’s all you can do.” Comments are no longer being accepted. I wonder if he’ll be taking Jesus to the football match instead of the girls. The great disappointment for me was Ford’s loss in 2006.  How could race not have played a part in his loss? The ad to which you refer is exactly like Thurmond’s ad in SC…the white hand crunching up a job application.  Hey, Ford loves girls and football…sounds very much like 150 million other guys in the US. I’m delighted he is Chairman of the DLC.  Perhaps he can push that organization to a more progressive level. Not least, I believe Ford has a very serious future in American democratic politics and I wish him well. Ford’s flip-flop on divisive gay marriage amendments offended the majority of gays and lesbians who call themselves Democrats.  He enthusiastically supported them during his campaign, even while privately telling a state group he would not.  Any Democrat who would sell out a minority group to gain power is not deserving of a leadership position in the party. Arleen, I, too, am a big fan of Harold Ford Jr.  However, I think the ad you mention – the white hand crunching up a job application- was used by Jesse Helms, not Strom Thurmond, in the 1990 North Carolina Senate race against Harvey Gant, the black former mayor of Charlotte. I think that Ford ran as conservative a campaign as a Democrat could and still fell three points short in Tennessee. That he lost in ’06 despite the strongly anti-Republican sentiment throughout the country shows how much of an uphill climb the national Democratic party faces in the South. Dem’s would be wise to heed Thomas Schaller’s point that it’s better to look to the Mountain states and consolidate the gains made on the coasts and Midwest for a 2008 Democratic victory. Ford will likely reemerge in national politics again, but if he thinks it can be as a “Republican Lite” he is mistaken. Unfortunately, “centrist” as the word is applied to Democrats seems to specify somebody who believes Jesus died for any possible sin they might commit. Barack Obama notes in his book, The Audacity of Hope, that the whole Congressional Black Caucus believes this. To me, these delusions are not “centrist”, they are insane. We need more Democrats who don’t derive public policy from scriptures and religion, or find excuses in the death of Jesus for blundering US foreign policy. Unfortunately, Ford is from Snakebit Holler, and he’s not going to take on the snakes. I saw Mr. Corker on Hardball with Chris Matthews shortly after the November election.  He looked guilty by association.  In my view, had Harold Ford won hs bid in Tennessee, the Democrats would have really made a clean sweep.  Tennessee and the rest of the U.S are worse off for not having him in the Senate.  I’m glad th Democrats realize he still has a strong political future. Poor Harold Ford not conservative enough for his constituency. Not progressive enough for his party. Too christian, too black, not black enough, exploiting his religion for politics. Maybe next time around harold ford can campaign on a unicycle while juggling flaming swords. All the while he can run against another cookie cutter white male republican with a “regular,” name and nothing to say. There is something wrong in our society when a man as engaging and bright as Harold Ford Jr. can lose to a dud like Bob Corker, and we analyze the policies and attitudes of Mr. Ford. Harold Ford was my favorite candidate of 2006. It seemed clear to me that it was only geography that kept him from winning. While, like ‘Nosheep’ above, I wish Jesus would take a break from American politics and go back to staring in allegorical tales and scoring touchdowns, the reality is that most Americans need to believe a candidate is trustworthy and some reference to the Bible let them know he/she is. None-the-less, I would love the opportunity to vote for Mr. Ford so I am glad to see him moving onto a more national stage. You know what the most disgusting part of this whole story turns out to be? The Republican operative who actually nade the race-baiting “call me harold”  anti-Ford ad is now working for one of the GOP Presidential contenders, I’m not sure which one–I  believe it’s McCain or possibly Mitt Romney. Anyone even remotely associated with such a disgusting piece of  manipulation should have been drummed out of the business by his peers, but apparently in today’s GOP there is no standard except electoral success. If that’s what it took for Corker to win, he and his ad man should be thoroughly discredited!!! To Jack White–if you are going to correct someone, do it correctly–Jesse Helms defeated Harvey Gantt (not Gant) with the two-white-hands ad. To NoSheep–calling people who believe in Christ “insane” and harboring “delusions” may not get you anywhere in light of the fact that an overwhelming majority of Americans believe in Jesus Christ.  Deal with it and move on. All the Christian sanctimony on planet Earth won’t change the reality that nature has no stake or interest in human concerns. It’s time that we insisted that our politicians have reached adulthood and grasped this basic fact. All the circle-jerking on the planet cannot change it. I worked on the Ford campaign in Tennessee. Harold Ford is a great guy. He’s genuine, smart and committed to one America for all. I’ll support him in whatever he does. He’s the real deal. Something about this title “loves girls .. etc.” I find rather discusting.  Never mind Mr.Ford, but this is asking for trouble. How do you mix the love of girls with the love of football.  Mr. Ford has his values crossed up. Advertisement 