 The art of advertising, which people call obvious and shameless, has actually become impenetrable. Since YouTube, advertising is now way, way, way more impenetrable than, say, Noh theater or “Finnegans Wake.” Explain, seriously, why a company pays $2.6 million for a 30-second spot during the Superbowl — right when people are going for more beer or chips or, even if they’re studying the ad for artfulness, not converting to the brand — only to leak it all over the Internet before its big kickoff on Sunday? Is this cost-effective? Stuart Elliott enlightens us here. And, O.K., maybe the Web exposure is worth more than holding the ad back for a Hollywood-style premiere. But maybe when you’ve seen 87 versions of an ad on YouTube (check out, for example, Kevin Federline for Nationwide) and then it appears in the living room on the bigger screen, all dialed to that hideous “sports” coloration, you just don’t care. It’s all played out. The ad — which is one of those with a big, broad reveal, after all — is like a spent joke. For its part, Nationwide is busy telling and retelling its joke on its OWN SITE. I just want to hear from one person who signs up for Nationwide insurance, believing it to be on his or her side, having seen Federline fantasize about hip-hop stardom. Comments are no longer being accepted. It’s not about having a good commercial on Game Day- it’s about getting your name out as much as possible.  Nationwide is getting tons o’press for this commercial, and everytime the commercial is written about, so is their name.  Sounds like a bargain to me. yes, but 2.6 million is chickenfeed for the entities involved.  Why not 2.6 billion?  the value is determined by how much you’re throwing away.  The price of the buzz is the buzz.  The money itself doesn’t have a fixed value.  But the buzz, not priceless, is a marker of existence. I find it racist of you to have used Noh Theater as a statement of impenetrability. It’s an affront to compare something as banal as Britney’s overexposed ex to something as sublime as an 700-year-old form of theater. You’re simply not learned. I agree with the first two comments. Nationwide is buying brand awareness. When a 25-year-old buy Nationwide insurance in 3 years, he won’t remember that he first heard of the company though a Federline commercial.   And to “What?”: calling something impenetrable indicates an appreciation of complexity, not an insult.  I don’t think Virginia was being racist towards Irish people when she mentioned Finnegan’s Wake in the same sentence. you’re talking about it, so it must have some effect. and the beauty of youtube? you choose to watch it or not. so i applaud your grit; watching 87 different versions of the same ad is painful, even for those of us who get paid to do so… i’m waiting until the superbowl to watch these ads in glorious HD, without download waits, while sitting in front of a screen ten times the size of my computer monitor, with a bowl of chili in hand. Um, excuse me? What does the comparison of ADVERTISING to NOH THEATRE have to do with the theory that certain human abilities and characteristics are determined by their race? Let’s stop heating up our keyboards with rash accusations and show a little more tactful intelligence with our word choice. Let me get this straight… they are already getting tons of free press and also “space time” with everyone they have driven to their website to view the video. Basically, two weeks of free advertising. Priceless! And the part where you refer to the ad being played out is wrong and shows your disdain for the venue. There will be a projected 140 million plus viewers of the Superbowl and I seriously doubt they have all seen the video already. It’s a decent ad so I would proffer that most people will actually enjoy seeing it again. Have checked out the increase in traffic to companies’ websites after their ads run? Also, my non-scientific polling shows that about half of the people I have surveyed are really more interested in the commercials they will see than the game while enjoying their Superbowl parties. I could go on and on but really, tell the truth, did you do any actual research for this or were you just ranting? Hey “What?” gives us all a break.  Should the Irish be mad as well because he metioned Finnegan’s Wake.  I find you to be racist since you seem to see everything through that lens. You have also mispelled Finnegans Wake. What?, perhaps you should give the piece a quick once-over. The simile was between the increasingly complex world of advertising and Noh – not between Federline and Noh. Further, if anything is racist surrounding this post it is Federline’s wigger pantomime. The Noh comment is only one in a long line of stereotypical adjectives and similes used to describe  the arts of non-Western ethnicities in the New York Times culture pages. Take any review of a Japanese dance group, movie, art exhibit, whatever, and you will find words such as “inscrutable,” “impenetrable,” “strange,” etc. Take any review of a Brazilian dance group or flamenco and you’ll find words like “fiery,” “earthy,” etc. We all know that the media, including the New York Times, is owned by the hegemonic socio-economic-political-ethnic groups, but can’t the New York Times editors come out with a better vocabulary to describe non-Western art forms?! Noh might have been too obvious a placeholder for “complex,” but I didn’t mean to set in motion the old Japan/inscrutability equation.  The Japanese theater I’m more familiar with–Kabuki and esp. Takarazuka (which I love)–is plainly far from arcane. So are anime, manga, Japanese visual art, contemporary Japanese novels, etc. But the slowness and subtlety of Noh, as well as its many rules, make it pretty difficult to appreciate for modern audiences who are unfamiliar with its conventions.  My sincere apologies to What? if my reference seemed simpleminded or xenophobic.  As for my misspelling of Finnegans Wake, that’s also lame. It’s been corrected. Thanks, ChrisS. And thanks to all for good comments. With television and the Internet converging at last, who's going to watch all this here-goes-nothing online video? Everything from political propaganda videos to pseudo-candid celebrity rants seems to expect an audience. "The Medium" will find, review and make sense of all those senseless new images: web video, viral video, user-driven video, custom interactive video, embedded video ads, web-based VOD, broadband television, diavlogs, vcasts, vlogs, video podcasts, mobisodes, webisodes, mashups and more. Virginia Heffernan is The Medium columnist for The New York Times Magazine. Previously she spent four years as a television critic for The New York Times newspaper. Before coming to the newspaper, she wrote for Slate, and before that she was an editor at Harper's and Talk magazines. In 2005, she published a comic novel, "The Underminer," which she wrote with Mike Albo.     The Medium is on the move.Read more…     People using the Internet look boring. How are TV and Hollywood dramatizing them?Read more…     Aaron Patzer, founder & CEO of Mint.com, answers reader concerns about the site’s security.Read more…     On the iPhone, paint is not as real as mud or snow; it’s not even as real as paint.Read more…     Mint.com transforms personal finance from an onerous task into a fun diversion.Read more… Advertisement 