Like a lot of Americans, the Bagger was ready for some football last night. He put a buck twenty on the Colts to cover — the only good bet he’s made all season — ordered up a bucket of chicken and kicked back. The only problem is this Oscar blog needed feeding, so he spent time searching for the ever-elusive Oscar hook. He came up with, well, not much. The Bagger could have used the pregame flyover — “Top Gun” got four nominations in 1986 — but that would have been cheating. Billy Joel did the national anthem, but he has he never even been nominated for an Oscar. The Bagger feels, though, that he can now cite him as the winner of  the Phoning in a Song From the Greatest Distance in the History of Sung Music Award. Mr. Joel, who might want to think about putting out an APB for his soul, was clearly pissed he was sitting out in the rain playing a piano, with nothing between him and nature but a sopped pate. But the Bagge noticed that the person doing the sign language translation of the anthem was Marlee Matlin.  Bingo! Best actress winner in 1986 for “Children of a Lesser God.”  Still, she came and went in a flash. The rest of the pickings were so slim they were one dimensional. There was an ad for “Norbit,” which stars Eddie Murphy, one of the Oscar actor favs this year, depending on who you ask.  Another ad was for “Wild Hogs,” which looks odious and seems to involve some codgers who have sold their walkers and bought Harley’s, but does include two Academy Award nominees — William H. Macy and John Travolta — and one winner, Marisa Tomei. But it was just a commercial. (Apparently, the studios choked on the price tag, so there weren’t many this year.) The Bagger had all but given up hope when the halftime show came and his royal purpleness, the modern king of soul, the symbol as archetype cum rockstar — ladies and gentleman, the artist formerly and presently known as Prince — appeared. A winner for original song in 1984 — “Purple Rain” — he stepped into the downpour and turned the rain to steam. Prince is the one person who could take something as cheesy as the halftime show of the Superbowl and turn it into an incendiary guitar tutorial and a funked up parody of the thing itself. The Bagger is from Minneapolis, as is the little guy, so he is obvious in the tank for him. More importantly, Prince Roger Nelson gave the Bagger a way to drop all the Super Bowl nonsense into his blog. Let’s go crazy! Let’s get nuts! Comments are no longer being accepted. I agree – Prince stole the show. Just when we thought halftime shows were ridiculous, he took it to another level. I couldn’t turn the channel – even for the Puppy Bowl… Now, Bagger, if you had switched to the Animal Channel, you would have seen the descendents of some Oscar contenders there, too! By the way, Marlee is in that ground-breaking film, What the Bleep? from a few years back. I really liked it. A correction… Prince did not win for “original song” in 1984, he won for “original song score” (for the 1984 calendar year, awarded in 1985). His acceptance was one of the funniest-bizarre things I’ve ever seen in 25 years of  watching the Oscars. And I couldn’t help but notice a year later that  the category had been eliminated. Cara Buckley is your guide on the red carpet to the news and the nonsense of awards season, covering the Golden Globes, the Oscars and more. The Carpetbagger will take a look at films and the people who make and star in them. She's joined by Michael Cieply and Brooks Barnes in Los Angeles, Larry Rohter on foreign-language films and documentaries, Mekado Murphy on the  technical craft of filmmaking and Rachel Lee Harris on costume design. Tips are always welcome.  Advertisement 