After two weeks of non-stop, searing comparative analysis of the Super Bowl matchup, you might ask: what’s left to discuss? Pants. Simply speaking, two teams with yellow pants is too many teams in yellow pants.   The Packers’ whirl of forest green and cheddar cheese yellow pitted against the Steelers black and French’s mustard yellow summons thoughts of meals I hope to never have: Squash and bananas. A lemon and saffron sandwich. Couscous and buttery corn on the cob.  A plate of mustard and … well, you get the idea. It is, to borrow a word beloved by sports talk radio, a violation. It might sound preposterous, but it is a violation of football aesthetics. It’s not that I abhor yellow. It’s a fine color for a living room wall.  Or a Van Gogh painting.  But you would not want your sofa to also be yellow. I’ll bet a bowl of M & M’s that there will be people grumbling into their beer Sunday because they are not always 100 percent sure who has the ball. Add some mild color blindness and you might even hear someone pine aloud for their old black and white TV.  A Super Bowl matchup with proper color disparity was Superbowl XIII. The Steelers facing the Cowboys provided a stark differentiation in uniform, the black vs. white, which almost casually underlined the narrative for the game. The Steelers’ black was a perfect embodiment of their gritty, blue collar reputation vs. the gleaming silver and white of the sanctimonious Cowboys.  On the flip side, you had the Giants and Patriots playing in Super Bowl XLII, about which I can hear the likes of Tim Gunn saying with pursed lips and stentorian tone, “Just too much blue!” In this Super Bowl, like that one, to tell the teams apart, keep your eyes on their helmets.  The New York Times will report on the Giants and Jets throughout the season. You can also find links to coverage from around the league, tips for your fantasy football team and discussion with other football fans.     The content on the Fifth Down blog is moving to the pro football page on nytimes.com.Read more…     The Jets receiver became a critic of the game and its role in American society. But the decision to walk away was also personal.Read more…     John Idzik, the general manager of the Jets, will not retain Scott Cohen, the assistant general manager. Ari Nissim, another high-ranking executive, also will depart.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, answers questions from readers.Read more…     Judy Battista, the N.F.L. reporter for The Times, will answer questions from readers.Read more… Follow Advertisement 