One of the more memorable commercials broadcast during the Super Bowl on Sunday night featured a bevy of pop culture icons from the 1980s, including Hulk Hogan and the actor John Ratzenberger. Inside MetLife Stadium, meanwhile, there was a 1980s tableau of a different sort — albeit one that would appeal mainly to connoisseurs of Wall Street news and culture. Henry R. Kravis, the prominent financier who co-founded Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, was spotted in a box seat next to the actor Michael Douglas, who as Gordon Gekko in Oliver Stone’s 1987 film “Wall Street” famously declared: “Greed — for lack of a better word — is good.” Mr. Kravis, while not nearly as widely known as Mr. Douglas, reigned in the 1980s as a real-life prince of Wall Street. He earned a place in popular culture after orchestrating the leveraged buyout of RJR Nabisco in 1988, a story that dominated the headlines and was recounted in the book “Barbarians at the Gate.” In the film version of the book, Mr. Kravis was portrayed with quiet intensity by Jonathan Pryce. Why were Mr. Douglas and Mr. Kravis sitting together? The reason is probably fairly straightforward. The two men are friends from their boarding school days at Eaglebrook School in Deerfield, Mass. Still, when the duo appeared on TV during the second half of the game, a number of Twitter wits took note. Henry Kravis sighting next to Michael Douglas in box. — Andrew Ross Sorkin (@andrewrsorkin) 3 Feb 14 That was billionaire financier Henry Kravis next to Michael Douglas. #KKR #WallStreet #GreedIsGood — Peter Lattman (@peterlattman) 3 Feb 14 Henry Kravis sitting with Michael Douglas at the #SuperBowl. WALL STREET. — David Gelles (@dgelles) 3 Feb 14 What on earth are Henry Kravis and Michael Douglas talking about at the Super Bowl? — Rob Cox (@rob1cox) 3 Feb 14 Gordon Gekko & Henry Kravis at #SuperBowI. Gekko to Kravis: “Think we could LBO the NFL?” Kravis: “If we fire Peyton” //t.co/eNJegWutnl — Andrew Ross Sorkin (@andrewrsorkin) 3 Feb 14 Side note I was just mocked mercilessly for shouting out “Henry Kravis! Henry Kravis!” and not knowing that was Michael Douglas. — Hillary Canada (@H_Canada) 3 Feb 14 Advertisement 