Advertisement By KATHRYN SHATTUCKJAN. 29, 2014  10 P.M. (ABC) NASHVILLE Juliette (Hayden Panettiere) surprises Jeff (Oliver Hudson) by refusing to apologize for her behavior during her induction into the Grand Ole Opry. Luke (Will Chase) introduces Rayna (Connie Britton, above) to someone who could help make her distribution deal a reality and then surprises her with a Nascar vehicle promoting her brand. And Deacon (Charles Esten) discovers that his own deal might not be what he anticipated. 9:35 A.M. (IFC) MASTER AND COMMANDER: THE FAR SIDE OF THE WORLD (2003) In Peter Weir’s adaptation of two novels by Patrick O’Brian, Russell Crowe stars as Capt. Jack Aubrey, the commander of a British frigate whose crew must battle a faster, larger French vessel off the coast of South America during the Napoleonic wars. Paul Bettany is the ship’s surgeon — so deft he even operates on his own abdomen — and the sensitive foil to Aubrey’s fierceness. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott said that the film, whose land-based scenes were filmed on the Galápagos Islands, “hums with humor, passion and life.” He added, “It makes you wish Napoleon were still around, so we — that is, I mean, the British Empire — could beat him all over again.” 1:05 P.M. (Showtime) THE WOMAN IN THE FIFTH (2012) Tom Ricks (Ethan Hawke), an American writer down on his luck in Paris, embarks on a relationship with the enigmatic Margit (Kristin Scott Thomas) in this psychological thriller directed by Pawel Pawlikowski. But can she help Tom, who has had writer’s block since the publication of his first book? “Although Mr. Pawlikowski often shows Mr. Hawke in medium and long shots, the actor draws you close,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. “There’s anguish in Tom’s face that speaks of a terrible fragility and that leavens the story’s mysterioso proceedings with a real, recognizable humanity.” 7:10 P.M. (MoreMax) IN GOOD COMPANY (2004) A 51-year-old advertising executive (Dennis Quaid, below, flanked by Topher Grace and Scarlett Johansson) finds his life turned upside down when a young shark (Mr. Grace) arrives on the scene to take over his department and his office — and sleep with his daughter (Ms. Johansson). This “engagingly lightweight drama,” written and directed by Paul Weitz, “is a gently revisionist fairy tale about good versus evil set on the battlefield of contemporary corporate culture, a site of our leading blood sport,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. “Mostly, though, the movie is about men. Men without fathers, men without sons, men with wives who work and make them feel like less than a man and men with wives who, like Dan’s wife, Ann (Marg Helgenberger), give them the gift of both an exquisitely preserved figure and a fertile womb.” Advertisement 8 P.M. (13, 49) THE FUNKIEST MONKEYS Twenty-five years ago, the filmmaker and biologist Colin Stafford-Johnson traveled to Sulawesi in Indonesia and became captivated by crested black macaques, with their punkish tufts of hair, copper-colored eyes and cheeky behavior. But since then, their numbers have dropped by nearly 90 percent. In this “Nature” episode, he returns to Sulawesi to meet with local biologists and determine how to save the macaque population. In “Ghosts of Murdered Kings,” at 9 on “Nova,” archaeologists and forensic experts investigate a prehistoric corpse found in an Irish bog and thought to be a ritually murdered king, killed to guarantee the fertility of the land and its people. And in “Hawking,” at 10, Buzz Aldrin, Richard Bronson, Jim Carrey and Benedict Cumberbatch help chronicle the life of the physicist Stephen Hawking.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. 8 P.M. (CBS) SUPER BOWL’S GREATEST COMMERCIALS 2014 Boomer Esiason and Sarah Shahi host this program in which viewers will vote at cbs.com/superbowl for their favorite Super Bowl advertisement of all time. Advertisement 9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT In a scenario out of a modern-day “Romeo and Juliet,” a teenager (Fiona Robert) is kidnapped, and her boyfriend (Juan Castano), a scholarship student from the projects, becomes the prime suspect. Detective Benson (Mariska Hargitay), meanwhile, is sworn in as the squad’s new sergeant. 9 P.M. (MTV) MILEY CYRUS: MTV UNPLUGGED Ms. Cyrus strips down some of her hits alongside guests including Madonna. 10 P.M. (Ovation) THE FASHION FUND Emerging designers discuss their vision and business acumen in interviews with Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, and Diane von Furstenberg, the president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America, as they compete to become the 2013 CFDA/Vogue Fashion Fund winner. KATHRYN SHATTUCK A version of this schedule appears in print on January 29, 2014, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Wednesday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 