Trending on Twitter in Germany Monday morning — right up there with the #superbowl and New York Giants — was “Grüss Gott,” roughly translated as  “God’s Greetings,” and traditionally the way Bavarians and other southern Germans, and most Austrians, greet one another. The greeting has the nation buzzing after the director in a middle school in the southern city of Passau posted a notice banning the more casual “Hallo” from the premises in favor of “Grüss Gott,” which she considers to be more polite. (The casual German expression for bye, “Tschüss” has also been jettisoned in favor of  the more traditional “Auf Wiedersehen.”) Petra Seibert, the director of the St. Nikola Middle School, argues in the Süddeutsche Zeitung that the move is an effort to restore a culture of politeness to the school culture that is lacking among pupils. She also says it will help instill a habit that will be advantageous in dealings with future employers. No punishments are handed down to pupils who violate the ban. Teachers are simply encouraged to politely remind them to use a more polite greeting, which could be a “Guten Tag,” for anyone who does not feel comfortable with the traditional Bavarian greeting. At my own children’s’ school in Berlin, the principal would be happy to hear children singing out “Hallo!” in the morning, as she has been bemoaning the fact that neither parents nor pupils greet their teachers anymore. More than once, I’ve had German parents brush me off when I urge my kids to say “please” or “thank you,” to them, telling me not to bother, that it is not important. While the Twitter debate has focused heavily on the religious implications associated with “Grüss Gott”, Ms. Seibert insists that she is just doing her job by teaching her pupils a level of respect that “was previously self-evident, but today is problematic.”  What has been your experience of Germans, are they exceptionally rude? Do you require your children to greet their teachers every morning? Follow Advertisement 