Does the name you give your baby shape the person they become? I agonized for months over what to name my children. I wanted to choose something that was short, or at least had a short nickname, so my boys could have the satisfaction of being able to spell it early on. Speaking of nicknames, I wanted to avoid ones that would have them teased on the playground through middle school. Then there is the question of initials — do they spell out something unfortunate? And the stern factor — can you say it like you mean it when they are in trouble?  It’s not just first names that are on the table. Will the baby take Mom’s last name or Dad’s?  Mom’s as a middle name? A hyphenated version of both? Or perhaps you could go the Icelandic route — creating an entirely new last name for each child, depending on their gender and their parents first names.  I looked for a name common enough that it didn’t try too hard and uncommon enough that they wouldn’t be one of a half dozen who turned around when the teacher said it in class. Accessible enough that it wouldn’t weigh down a small child, solid enough that it would wear well on an adult.  So I named my first son Evan, because I didn’t know any Evans and he could be the only Evan; there were three in his kindergarten class.  Then I named my second son Alexander, in spite of the fact that I knew lots of boys named Alex, figuring we’d use another form of it as his nickname to help him stand out from the crowd; he is the only Alex in his grade.  I have never loved my own name. I seem to share it with every girl born during the 1960s, and even though there are countless numbers of us, I still have no sense of who a “Lisa” is supposed to be. This past year, the most popular name for girls is Emma, and for boys, Aiden. Thousands of parents out there climbing the mental decision trees and pausing on the same cluster of branches.  That’s because while we each look for something fresh and original, our feeling for what is “new” (even if what is “new” is a return to the traditional) is pulled out of the same encompassing zeitgeist. A generation of Sarahs and Janes turned around and gave birth to Tiffanys and Brittneys, who are now going back to basics with Emma and Sophia and Lily. According to Babycenter.com (which released the Top 100 Baby Names of 2008  yesterday) the names shooting up fastest in popularity are all traditional ones: Sophie (up 15 slots since last year), Oliver (13 slots), Nathaniel and Samuel (up 11) and Charlotte (up 10). Traditional is in unless you are a celebrity. Then anything goes. Bronx, which is the name Ashley Simpson and Pete Wenz gave their newborn son, is ranked at 7058 by babycenter.com, and Sunday, the name of Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban’s daughter is ranked 8781.  Right after the election Jennifer 8. Lee (yes, “8” is her middle name … I wonder where that ranks on the Babycenter list) wrote about a rash of newborns named Barack. After the Superbowl last year, Babycenter says, there was an uptick in babies named Eli and Peyton.  What is in a name? A world of possibility.  Comments are no longer being accepted. I wanted to name our baby “Summer” since she was due around the summer solstice.  My husband wanted “Sarah” since that is a common name for his family.  We went with Sarah – never realized what a common name that is, so maybe she will decide on “Summer” as a nickname. The problem doubles when you’re having twins.  Then, you have to pick out names that sound good together and are equally popular/strange (i.e. no John and Bookshelf). Also, is that journalist’s middle initial really the number eight? What does it stand for? We named my first daughter Rory.  I tend to like unisex names, and I also wanted something simple but different.  We have yet to meet another female Rory on the playground, although she often has to repeat her name multiple times (Lori?  no Rory!  huh? R-O-R-Y oh!, cool!)   We also liked how it sounded with our last name.  A great baby name book which dissects the phonological importance of names is The Perfect Baby name (//theperfectbabyname.com/contact.html). We named our 2nd daughter Skylar, and we often call her Sky. We have met a few boys here and there with similar names, but not often.  The only difficulty has been that she doesn’t pronounce her S’s very well, so she introduces herself as “Ky or Kylar’.  I think that both names are unique but not too strange, so hoping to avoid the playground teasing.  Easy to write and spell early on. I have always despised my name.  The recently I realized that it wasn’t the name I despised, it was my parents use of it.  Whenever it was used, it was in a negative context: actions, posture, failure to do something or other, and a whole bunch of other stuff. Recently, at an advanced age, I am returning to the original.  It saves some confusion, and it doesn’t let them win. As a mom of a 2 year old, it amazes me how many children share ‘unique’ names. There are more Madisons and Addisons  then there ever were of Jennifers while I was in school. We actually know a Zahara, and more Braydens than I can count, although each one is spelled differently. And lets not get started on the made up names, such as Chanley (what does that mean) and Makenna. There is also a Gage and a Chace that we know. We are only in Gymboree now so we have a small population to pull from…it will be interesting to hear the names of my daughters classmates when she hits First Grade.  We went with a less common, but easily pronounceable name for my daughter and I am so glad we did. She is a Shelby, and although we have met a few, they are usually older and so excited to meet someone with the same name. I named my son Henry because I love old fashioned English names and because he seemed to have an old soul.  Surely no one in his school would be named that, I thought, until I was on vacation and met three other Henry’s at the pool, all born within weeks of each other. Now it seems I meet a Henry everywhere I go!  I am still happy with the choice, but don’t dare call him “Hank”. I think the more interesting situation is faced by immigrant parents who may have to choose between an “American-friendly” name, i.e. one that is easily pronounceable by native English speakers, and one that is harder to say but more traditional. Spelling is an interesting issue to. My name is often pronounced as “Sa-pa-na” although it should only have two syllables, “Sup-na.”  It’s spelled with three A’s to account for inherent vowels and it’s unfortunate (for me and others like me) that English doesn’t really have a good way of handling that kind of transliteration. And to add to all that confusion, let’s not forget ethnic names from America’s non-English speaking communities. For those of us born into South Asian families, a common test for a baby name is to ask the nurse at the hospital to pronounce it – just to make sure it won’t be butchered in school.  My husband’s favorite test for potential baby names is to play the 3rd-grade-bully and see if he can twist the name into some sort of offensive word that would be hurled at our child on the playground. Try “sheetal” for example! You’re right about the initials. Mine are BS. The middle one is no better, M. BMS. What were my parents thinking? But then, maybe they knew something. I’m in marketing. You neglect to mention the addictive baby name website with interactive tools that let you chart baby names through time: The Baby Name Voyager.  ( //www.babynamewizard.com ).  Hours of procrastination when you’re pregnant… It was on her blog that we got the suggestion for a ‘March Madness’ style of selecting baby names, letting friends and family participate in voting on their favorite baby names.  We used it for our second child (we were more indecisive that time) but then abandoned the most popular choices when it came down to the wire. There is nothing more frustrating than finding out how popular your baby’s name is, especially when at the time you knew none. What’s a mom to do? Alison has is right – nicknames. I thought we were being terribly original in picking out the name Zoe for my eldest, now 12. She was born in a rural hospital with about eight maternity beds. The nurse asked us what we were naming her and we said “Zoe Sylvia.” “Oh,”she said “there’s a Zoe Olivia right next door!” What an interesting topic.  I like my name because it’s a mix of unique and regular.  I gave my daughter the same quality in her name.  Her first name is regular and her middle name is unique.   Are you looking for a way to connect with other parents.  Check out SAHMAnswers.com for parenting tips and advice from other parents who’ve been there. 8 is the lucky number for Chinese, and her last name is Lee.  I’m sure that is why. After finding out I was pregnant, I heard the name “Joanna” in a movie, and decided I wanted a little girl named Joanna. It wasn’t overly popular, but not unusual, either, plus we could call her “Joey” for my dad–perfect!  Then I found out I was having twins! Now to find another not-overly-popular-but-not-too-unusual name, that also complemented Joanna, but not in an annoying, sing-song way. I loved the name Lorena, but the woman-with-the-kitchen-knife asssociation scared me off; I also liked “Elena”, but saw that it was up-and-coming in popularity, and didn’t want my daughter in classes with three other Elenas. We settled on Marlena–a little unusual, but lovely, we thought. We were careful to spell it with an “a” on the end so she wouldn’t be called ‘Mar-LEEN” (we live in Texas–it would pretty much be a certainty). Did I consider boys’ names? Yes–“Javier” and “Hank”–or Hank and Javi–maybe it’s a good thing we had girls… My parents named me Juno. I have yet to meet another, although just last week I met the first person to have a friend named Juno.  And I confess to being relieved that, after all the buzz about the (great) movie that shares my name, it hasn’t made an appearance on the top 100 list. Now I just have to figure out what to name my own kids. Whatever you name the child, be aware of how much a kid can suffer when his/her name is easily ridiculed.  I once knew a child saddled with the name “Yucca.” I wonder if he became a serial killer. Then there was the House family. Those parents had the sadistic idea of naming the precious infant intrusted to them “Maxwell.” How can people do such horrible things to an innocent child?! And then there are the “creative” spellings of classic names. These insure that the individual stuck with them will have to spell his or her name hundreds of thousands of times. If her name is to be “Cynthia,” don’t make her spell out “Synthea” every day of her life. It gets very tedious. Please, please, parents. Consider the child. Give your son or daughter a name that can be recognised, pronounced, and spelled by almost everyone. Spare the poor kid your attempts at being clever. My mother told me she picked my name because the woman she shared a hospital room with, when I was born, had a daughter named Cheryl. My reaction to that — of course — was “You didn’t come up with a name for me until you were having me?!” Perhaps because of that, I named my children family names. My daughter is actually named after my mother. My son is a Jr. Now, some people think that the whole Jr./III/IV thing is high-falutin’, but I asked every Junior I knew how they liked their names and — to a man — they said they liked sharing their name with their father. My daughter’s middle name comes from a story, dating back to the pioneer days, from my husband’s mother’s family. Pretty cool.  My kids’ names are ones people recognize when they hear them but they are not on any most popular lists. And we spell them the accepted way. I have never understood why parents take a traditional name and then spell it funny. Is that some attempt to be different? The only effect it has is that the child has to spell out his or her name to people  their whole lives. My son liked having a 3-letter name in kindergarten, although he was a little jealous of AJ.  He was a little peeved a few years later, though, when there was “a Ben on every soccer team we play!”  (Except for that team that had two.)  He’s out of high school and OK with it now.  I will never understand the thinking of my inlaws, who named my husband after his father, but according to plan, always called him by his middle name.  It has caused many many small problems for him, and I don’t see why the names weren’t reversed.  One more thing to agonize over, too, is how the kids’ names sound together.  We thought Benjamin and Elizabeth were great names (even though one was old testament and the other new), but didn’t realize how similar their eventual nicknames, Beth and Ben, would be.  AND they used it against us–“but I thought you said ‘Beth!'” First, we made a list of all the names that were already in the family and discarded them. We next considered possibilities in light of  the Jewish tradition of naming for a deceased family member. We named our first child Rebecca, not knowing how popular Biblical names would be in that generation. She never used Becky. Wherever she goes, she meets other Rebeccas. In college, she adopted the short form of Bec. We named our second child Sandra, veering away from the Biblical. It is a “known” name, but not common. For one week, at age 12, she used Sandi. She meets other Sandras, maybe twice a year. One thing that was helpful in the naming process was that we had adult acquaintances named Rebecca and Sandra. So, we saw that these was a life-long names that would serve them as children and adults. My personal pet peeve is when folks create atypical spellings for common names: Jayne for Jane, as an example. When I see a name like that, I wonder to myself “Did you make that up to call attention to yourself, or did your parents foist that on you?” However, I do respect the creativity of the African-American community; such names reflect a political agenda, just as my choice of a Biblical name alludes to Jewish values. And we have a nephew named Evan. My mom was from Mississippi and  a devoted William Faulkner fan. She named me Faulkner in honor him. When I was in grade school, I wished she had named me William instead. In those days, the teachers read attendance using the last name first. i have always hated my name.  I’m named after a very strange relative, and my own name means “alien,” which is apt.  I have never fit into my own family. The name itself is bad enough, but the shortened versions of it are much worse.  And trying to tell people not to use any of those versions gets you known as b*tchy.  Of course, the alternative, Tammy, was even worse.  Sadly, I am too well-known in my field to change it. Kari #3 — We named our second, a boy, Flynn.  His older sister (22 months) could not get that FL out, so she called him Pin or Pinny, which has stuck as an endearment.  Of course, I can still hear him, an exasperated toddler, calling her Madowen, so Madeleine worked against us, too. I hated the name my parents gave me, and changed it at 16. My parents still call me by the name they gave me (“You’re OUR daughter, and WE named you, and that’s that!”) Hey, it’s my name, its what people call me, I think I have the right to answer to a name I like. If your kids hate their names, they are likely to let you know it. Lots of people change their names over a lifetime, nicknames or shortened versions give way to more formal conventions, names change with marital status (or not), people go from being Bob and Jane to Dad and Mom to Bob and Jane again. Change is good. We thought we were choosing old-fashion, uncommon names but unfortunatly apparently so did everyone else b/c we run into other Graces and Liams all the time – I still like the names but laugh at myself thinking I was being so cool and original! The Motherlode blog has a weekly email. Catch up on any essays, posts and columns you've missed along with book reviews and family news from the Times and elsewhere, all free. Subscribe to the Weekly E-mail. We're all living the family dynamic, as parents, as children, as siblings, uncles and aunts. At Motherlode, lead writer and editor KJ Dell’Antonia invites contributors and commenters to explore how our families affect our lives, and how the news affects our families—and all families. Join us to talk about education, child care, mealtime, sports, technology, the work-family balance and much more Each week, we send out a newsletter containing the news and headlines that matter most to parents.     The Times is introducing Well Family, a new online report with expanded coverage of parenting, childhood health and relationships to help every family live well.Read more…     I can’t promise that our foster son can stay with us, but I can I try to prepare him for the possibility of leaving without adding to his fear. Read more…     As much as parents want to know about areas that our children are struggling in, we’re also wondering what teachers like about them. Read more…     By the time children are in middle school, parents should be stepping back. But what if another child won’t stop annoying yours?Read more…     In November, this family adopted five young children from foster care. Read more… The Motherlode blog welcomes our new artist-in-residence, illustrator Allison Steen.   Follow her on Twitter and on Instagram. Advertisement 