Advertisement By TAMMY LA GORCEFEB. 4, 2007  If   the words “sloppy joe,” for you,  conjure the image from a can of  Manwich, Diana Fluke, co-owner of the Millburn Delicatessen, will be happy to set you straight. “A sloppy joe is called a sloppy joe because it’s very messy to eat. It doesn’t have anything to do with ground meat and tomato sauce,” she said. As the deli’s  estimated 500 daily lunch customers know, a sloppy joe here means a triple-decker sandwich — ham, corned beef, turkey or roast beef on sourdough rye, with Swiss cheese, coleslaw and Russian dressing ($6.50). The  deli  seems well on its way to converting those who would make their joes with a skillet. Ms. Fluke has sent her sloppy creations  as far as California, where a group of Millburn High School graduates  sometimes awaits overnight deliveries.  When a sloppy joe is to travel a distance, Ms. Fluke said, the secret is to butter the rye.  “That protects it from getting mushy,” she said. Advertisement The Millburn Delicatessen does not thrive on sloppy joes alone, even though the Fluke family  —  Diana, her husband,  Ron,  and son,  Andrew   —  inherited the specialty when they bought the 1,800-square-foot  store (which serves only takeout) in 1991. These days other popular sandwiches include  the gobbler ($6.25), which  is “Thanksgiving on bread”  —  turkey,  hot stuffing, cranberry sauce, lettuce and mayonnaise on sourdough rye. For breakfast, the Taylor ham and cheese sandwich on a roll ($3.25)   is a brisk seller.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. If you’re wondering why there is sometimes a line of people out the door at 8 o’clock on weekend  mornings, though, it’s not for the breakfasts. Advertisement “It sounds crazy, but people are lining up for the sloppy joes at that hour,” Ms. Fluke said. “If it’s a football day, they want to pick them up early and get home.” At the Millburn Delicatessen, Superbowl Sunday  starts not with a kickoff, but with a stampede. The Millburn Delicatessen, 328  Millburn Avenue, Millburn; open daily,  8 a.m. to 6 p.m.; (973) 379-5800 or www.millburndeli.com.  TAMMY LA GORCE A version of this article appears in print on , on Page NJ6 of the New York edition with the headline: Sloppy Joes, Made by Pros.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe   We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 