Advertisement Supported by By Brooks Barnes SAN DIEGO — Warner Bros. unveiled sizzling footage on Saturday from upcoming movies like “Ready Player One,” “Justice League” and “Blade Runner 2049” at Comic-Con International here. The studio also confirmed that its superhero lineup in the decade ahead will include “Wonder Woman 2,” “Bat Girl” and “Green Lantern Corps.” But it was a rare announcement of something not happening that sent the fan convention spinning: Ben Affleck, looking a little grumpy, denied a report that his days as Batman are numbered. “I’m Batman,” he said, as 6,500 people inside Hall H at the San Diego Convention Center roared their approval. Mr. Affleck said that he had spoken to several senior Warner Bros. executives, including the studio’s chairman, Kevin Tsujihara. “‘We want you to be the Batman,’ they told me, and I believe them,” Mr. Affleck said. “I’m so thrilled to do it.” An article in The Hollywood Reporter on Friday said that Mr. Affleck’s future was in doubt — the equivalent of a sonic boom in the superhero movie world. Citing an anonymous source, the article said that Warner Bros. was “working on plans to usher out” an aging Mr. Affleck. Mr. Affleck, 44, first played the caped crusader in “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice,” which was released last year. He attended Comic-Con to promote “Justice League,” which will be released in November. In the upcoming movie, Mr. Affleck’s Batman will join forces with other superheroes, including Wonder Woman, played by Gal Gadot; Cyborg, played by Ray Fisher; Aquaman, played by Jason Mamoa; and the Flash, played by Ezra Miller. Mr. Affleck is also scheduled to star in “The Batman,” although Warner Bros. announced in January that he would no longer direct the film, which has no scheduled release date. Film writer and director Matthew Reeves, who recently directed “War for the Planet of the Apes,” will direct the film instead. With the Batman question seemingly settled, fan attention may now turn to “Wonder Woman 2” and the question of who will direct the sequel. The director of the first movie, Patty Jenkins, has been in talks with the studio to return. But Ms. Jenkins and Warner Bros. are at a standoff on deal terms. “Wonder Woman,” released in June, has reeled in more than $770 million worldwide. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 