Advertisement Supported by Best of Late Night By Giovanni Russonello Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. What do you think of it? What else are you interested in? Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com. President Trump suggested on Sunday that Mayor Sadiq Khan of London was being soft on terrorism, posting a tweet that mischaracterized a statement Mr. Khan made after the latest attacks there. Trevor Noah said that was like making fun of a sick friend. “He’s really something else. I mean, just after an attack on London he [expletive] on the mayor of London. He would be the worst person to visit you in the hospital. You’re suffering, and Donald Trump [expletive] on you. Like, ‘Donald, the accident left me totally blind.’ ‘At least you won’t see your wife ever again! She’s a two at best!’ ‘Donald, I start chemotherapy tomorrow.’ ‘Thank God, you always had the worst hair.’” — TREVOR NOAH Stephen Colbert returned to the air on Monday after a week away, and he was eager to revisit some of the news he’d missed out on — namely, the phenomenon that was “covfefe.” Mr. Colbert zeroed in on the tweet Mr. Trump sent after finally deleting his baffling original message: “It’s a great follow-up to everything he does that makes no sense,” Mr. Colbert said. He offered some possible variations: “‘Who can figure out the true reason I withdrew from the Paris climate treaty ??? Enjoy!’ “‘Who can figure out the true reason I inflicted my corrosive vortex of paranoia, wounded ego and stifling inhumanity on this great nation ??? Enjoy!’ “‘Who can figure out what’s on the famous Russian videotape of me asking those women to covfefe ??? Enjoy!’” Megyn Kelly, the former Fox News host, opened her new NBC show over the weekend, “Sunday Night With Megyn Kelly.” But the “Daily Show” correspondent Michelle Wolf wouldn’t let viewers forget which cable network Ms. Kelly came from, or how “The Daily Show” has always felt about it. “Five months ago, she was part of the problem. Actually, she was the queen of the problem. Now she acts all high and mighty, saying she doesn’t watch TV news and only consumes news by print. This is like finding out Ronald McDonald only eats broccoli rabe.” — MICHELLE WOLF “You’re not the new Barbara Walters. You’re the Sprint-Verizon guy who follows the money. ‘I’m on NBC now. Can you hear me now?’” — MICHELLE WOLF “In Michigan, a Republican congressman said that God would take care of climate change. Yeah, so now a group of polar bears are on their way to ‘take care’ of a Republican congressman in Michigan.” — CONAN O’BRIEN “Last week, President Trump announced the United States will withdraw from the Paris climate agreement. Trump said he wants the entire country to be the same temperature as a Florida golf course.” — JIMMY FALLON The “Late Late Show” will film three shows in London starting on Tuesday. Here’s how the team got there. Aquaman thinks Mr. Trump’s decision to leave the Paris climate accord means he’ll finally get some respect. Hasan Minhaj, one of Trevor Noah’s trustiest correspondents on “The Daily Show,” will speak to Stephen Colbert, who got his start in late night by sidekicking for Jon Stewart in the same role. Mr. Minhaj will most likely be talking about his new stand-up special on Netflix, “Homecoming King.” Here’s how Ariana Grande and her team pulled together the “One Love Manchester” charity show in just 10 days. Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 