Advertisement Supported by By Ben Kenigsberg AMANDA & JACK GO GLAMPING “Glamping” is glamorous camping, and it’s what a couple (Amy Acker and David Arquette) do to save their marriage, only to find that the space they’ve reserved has been double-booked. BITCH A housewife who’s been taken for granted (Marianna Palka, the movie’s writer and director) takes up residence in her house’s basement and begins behaving like a most un-housebroken dog. The film is a combination of exploitation-style horror and feminist statement. A BRIDE FOR RIP VAN WINKLE A social-network enthusiast who lacks IRL friends hires some to attend her wedding. Shunji Iwai (“All About Lily Chou-Chou”) directed. DADDY’S HOME 2 When we last saw Mark Wahlberg and Will Ferrell, they had buried the hatchet and found a way to split parenting duties (Mr. Ferrell’s character being married to Linda Cardellini, who plays the mother of Mr. Wahlberg’s children). Now the pals are faced with the prospect of seeing their own dads over the holidays. Mr. Ferrell’s effusive and emotional father is played by John Lithgow, while Mr. Wahlberg’s is played by Mel Gibson. Enough said. DESTINATION UNKNOWN Twelve Holocaust survivors, including a number who have never shared their experiences before, speak in this documentary. FLESH AND BLOOD A former convict (Mark Webber, who wrote and directed) readjusts to life outside prison in a film that fuses documentary and fiction elements. For instance, Cheri Honkala, the Green Party’s 2012 vice-presidential candidate — and Mr. Webber’s mother — plays a vice-presidential candidate running with Jill Stein. I REMEMBER YOU A woman’s suicide, her missing son and a haunted house are all somehow connected in this Icelandic thriller directed by Oskar Thor Axelsson. INTENT TO DESTROY: DEATH, DENIAL & DEPICTION The veteran documentarian Joe Berlinger (the “Paradise Lost” trilogy) chronicles the making of Terry George’s film “The Promise,” a rare large-scale production about the Armenian genocide. The documentary also explores what it frames as Turkish efforts through the years to prevent that story from being told. MAYHEM A virus that turns infected people into pure ids is unleashed in a law office. Steven Yeun and Samara Weaving star in Joe Lynch’s grindhouse-style feature. MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS The question hovering over this Kenneth Branagh-directed adaptation of Agatha Christie’s classic murder mystery is whether it will change the ending, which at this point is known to anyone who’s read the book, seen Sidney Lumet’s all-star 1974 movie version or just absorbed it through cultural osmosis. Mr. Branagh plays Hercule Poirot. The other celebrity train passengers include Penélope Cruz, Judi Dench, Johnny Depp and Michelle Pfeiffer. NO STONE UNTURNED The prolific documentarian Alex Gibney investigates a violent incident from the Troubles: a 1994 shooting in Loughinisland, Northern Ireland, in which six people watching the World Cup in a pub were killed by gunmen. The militant Protestant Ulster Volunteer Force claimed responsibility for the attack. REQUIEM FOR A RUNNING BACK Rebecca Carpenter, whose father, the pro running back Lew Carpenter, received a diagnosis of chronic traumatic encephalopathy after his death, directed this documentary in which she learns more about the disease, which is associated with the hits taken by football players. SANTA & ANDRES It’s 1983 and Santa (Lola Amores) is assigned to supervise Andres (Eduardo Martínez), a gay writer in Cuba regarded as suspicious by the regime. Their chilly relationship soon thaws. THELMA Joachim Trier’s shape-shifting horror movie has echoes of “The Exorcist” and especially “Carrie” — a marked change of pace for the director of “Louder Than Bombs.” A sheltered young woman (Eili Harboe) starting her studies in Oslo begins to experience seizures and an attraction to a classmate (Kaya Wilkins). THREE BILLBOARDS OUTSIDE EBBING, MISSOURI Believing that a police chief (Woody Harrelson) hasn’t done enough to solve her daughter’s murder, a mother (Frances McDormand, widely praised at the Toronto International Film Festival) puts that message on three billboards, ticking off some townspeople and triggering a wild series of bleakly comic plot developments of the variety for which Martin McDonagh (“In Bruges”) is known. With Sam Rockwell and Peter Dinklage. REBELS ON POINTE A documentarian, Bobbi Jo Hart, goes backstage with the male dance troupe Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo. SONG OF GRANITE With re-enactments, black-and-white cinematography and ample music, the filmmaker Pat Collins captures the life of the Irish folk singer Joe Heaney. ALMOST FRIENDS A would-be chef (Freddie Highmore) contends with his aimless lifestyle, a new crush (Odeya Rush) and the reappearance of his father (Christopher Meloni). ANGELICA Strange goings-on trouble the wife (Jena Malone) of a scientist (Ed Stoppard). Mitchell Lichtenstein (“Teeth”), a son of the pop artist Roy Lichtenstein, directed this thriller set in Victorian London. ATOMIC HOMEFRONT Activists take on organizations that they say are polluting their communities with radioactive waste. BIG SONIA The filmmakers follow Sonia, a Holocaust survivor who shares her memories when she receives an eviction notice for the mall tailor shop she ran for decades. THE BREADWINNER This feature from the Irish animation studio that made the Oscar-nominated “The Secret of Kells” is set in 2001 in Afghanistan, where a girl disguises herself as a boy to assume her father’s role as the earner for the family. COOK OFF! Oddball contestants vie for a hefty purse in a comedy that gives cooking competitions the “Best in Show” treatment. Melissa McCarthy heads the cast. A FANTASTIC WOMAN The Chilean filmmaker Sebastián Lelio (“Gloria”) directed this character portrait of Marina (Daniela Vega), a transgender woman whose older lover suddenly dies. She must then sort out the complications with his family. A. O. Scott, writing in The New York Times, called it his favorite of the films he saw at this year’s Telluride Film Festival. HOLY AIR Remember the canned air in “Spaceballs”? This comedy concerns a Christian Arab in the Israeli city of Nazareth who tries to sell air from the spot where the Virgin Mary learned she would conceive. I LOVE YOU, DADDY Louis C.K. directs himself in a black-and-white comedy so squirmy it’s best watched through webbed fingers. In a tribute to both 1930s studio filmmaking and Woody Allen’s “Manhattan,” Louis C.K. stars as a TV showrunner whose 17-year-old daughter (Chloë Grace Moretz) catches the eye of his idol — a 68-year-old filmmaker played by John Malkovich. As the film wrestles with the propriety of their possible relationship, it can’t help but serve as a reminder of the unsubstantiated rumors of sexual misconduct accusations against Louis C.K. himself. “I’m not going to answer to that stuff, because they’re rumors,” he told The Times in September. “If you actually participate in a rumor, you make it bigger and you make it real.” So it’s not real? he was pressed. “No.” he responded. “They’re rumors, that’s all that is.” JIM & ANDY: THE GREAT BEYOND — FEATURING A VERY SPECIAL, CONTRACTUALLY OBLIGATED MENTION OF TONY CLIFTON Jim Carrey recalls his experience going deep into character as Andy Kaufman in “Man on the Moon” (1999). Chris Smith (“American Movie”) directed this documentary, which features video of Mr. Carrey’s antics when the cameras weren’t rolling. JUSTICE LEAGUE The conventional wisdom on “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” is that the director Zack Snyder probably pushed the brooding-superhero template a bit too far. On the evidence of a trailer, “Justice League” takes a more tongue-in-cheek tone. Wonder Woman (Gal Gadot) and Batman (Ben Affleck) assemble a team that includes Aquaman (Jason Momoa) and the Flash (Ezra Miller). MUDBOUND Widely acclaimed at the Sundance and New York film festivals, the new film from Dee Rees (“Pariah”) is a “they don’t make ’em like they used to” Hollywood-style epic that also tells its story in a way Hollywood never did: Set in the Mississippi Delta around World War II, the movie accords equal weight to the lives of a black sharecropping family (Mary J. Blige, Rob Morgan and Jason Mitchell) and white landowners (Carey Mulligan, Jason Clarke and Garrett Hedlund). ON THE BEACH AT NIGHT ALONE To his detractors, the droll, prolific South Korean director Hong Sang-soo keeps repeating himself. (At least twice a year, it’s fair to expect a new movie about a filmmaker and his fumbling, soju-addled interactions with women.) “On the Beach at Night Alone,” one of three Hong features to have its premiere in 2017, has been described as a reflection on how the South Korean news media reacted to word of Mr. Hong’s relationship with his latest muse, Kim Min-hee. Ms. Kim, who plays an actress recovering from the fallout of an affair with a filmmaker, won a prize at the Berlin Film Festival. PORTO An American (Anton Yelchin, in one of his last films) and a Frenchwoman (Lucie Lucas) remember the brief encounter they shared in Porto, Portugal, years earlier. It’s the fiction feature debut of Gabe Klinger (“Double Play: James Benning and Richard Linklater”), a Brazil-born, Chicago-based film academic. REVOLT Lee Pace and Berenice Marlohe play a soldier and an aid worker in Africa during an extraterrestrial invasion. This science-fiction movie looks like it’s geared for fans of “District 9.” ROMAN J. ISRAEL, ESQ. Denzel Washington is a lawyer whose ’60s activist ideals are tested when his partner dies and he eventually takes a job at a large firm — a position that leads him to compromise his beliefs. With Colin Farrell and Carmen Ejogo. THE STAR In this animated feature, the first Christmas is seen from the vantage points of a donkey (voiced by Steven Yeun) and other animals, who sound a lot like Keegan-Michael Key, Kelly Clarkson, Ving Rhames and Gabriel Iglesias. SWEET VIRGINIA A hit man (Christopher Abbott) and a rodeo champion (Jon Bernthal) cross paths in Alaska. It’s a noir, of course. With Imogen Poots and Rosemarie DeWitt. WET WOMAN IN THE WIND Needing cash in the 1970s, the Japanese movie studio Nikkatsu reinvented itself as a haven for soft-core pornography; the genre that emerged became known as roman porno. The studio commissioned five contemporary directors to make their own throwbacks, including this one, directed by Akihiko Shiota. “The film is a freewheeling sex farce, with a large cast of characters engaging in the mandatory couplings (and thruplings and quadruplings),” Mike Hale wrote when it played at the New York Asian Film Festival earlier this year. WONDER A boy with a facial anomaly (Jacob Tremblay) must deal with the difficulty of being the new kid in school. Julia Roberts and Owen Wilson play his parents. Stephen Chbosky, the author and filmmaker of “The Perks of Being a Wallflower,” directed. BRIMSTONE & GLORY Dreams catch fire, literally, at the National Pyrotechnic Festival in Tultepec, Mexico. The celebration, its participants and the tradition of firework-making are the subjects of Viktor Jakovleski’s film, which is described as a “sensorial documentary” and has a score by Benh Zeitlin and Dan Romer (“Beasts of the Southern Wild”). COCO Pixar takes inspiration from the Mexican holiday Día de los Muertos (the Day of the Dead) — a name Disney tried to trademark — for an animated outing in which a boy (Anthony Gonzalez) who aspires to be a musician discovers a world filled with skeletons and hidden secrets. Gael García Bernal and Benjamin Bratt are among the voices. DARKEST HOUR Wearing what looks like several pounds of makeup, Gary Oldman plays Winston Churchill in the immediate days following his ascension to prime minister as he faces the history-altering decision to negotiate with Nazi Germany or continue leading Britain into war. Joe Wright directed; Kristin Scott Thomas and Lily James also star. THE MAN WHO INVENTED CHRISTMAS Like “Finding Neverland” and the recent “Goodbye Christopher Robin,” “The Man Who Invented Christmas” seems predicated on the notion that the most interesting underpinnings of any work of fiction are the autobiographical elements that inspired it. Did Charles Dickens (Dan Stevens) ever meet a Ghost of Christmas Past? MR. ROOSEVELT Noël Wells (“Master of None”) wrote, directed and stars in her debut feature, playing a comedian who returns from Los Angeles to Austin, Tex., and finds that her world there has changed. BOMBSHELL: THE HEDY LAMARR STORY Lamarr scandalized filmgoers when she skinny-dipped in Gustav Machaty’s “Ecstasy” (1933), but this documentary argues that there was a much more consequential surprise in her career: She was an unheralded inventor. As part of the fight against the Nazis, she helped devise a technological system that provided the underpinnings of Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. CALL ME BY YOUR NAME A teenager (Timothée Chalamet) in northern Italy is drawn to his father’s new protégé, an American doctoral student (Armie Hammer) staying with them at the family villa for the summer. Luca Guadagnino directed this adaptation of André Aciman’s novel from a script by James Ivory, and the reaction at festivals has been nothing short of rapturous. With Michael Stuhlbarg and Esther Garrel. CUBA AND THE CAMERAMAN The cameraman is Joe Alpert, who trailed three Cuban families over decades beginning in 1972. ERIC CLAPTON: LIFE IN 12 BARS The famed guitarist gets the deep-dive documentary treatment in this career-spanning portrait, which is billed as having exclusive access to Mr. Clapton’s personal archive. NAPLES ’44 In this ode to Naples, Norman Lewis, a British soldier who arrived in the Italian city during the Allied forces’ liberation of Italy, has his memories read by Benedict Cumberbatch. 24 HOURS TO LIVE Entering his Jason Statham phase, Ethan Hawke plays an assassin who is killed and then somehow revived. The twist? As in the noir classic “D.O.A.,” he has only a limited amount of time to settle scores before he croaks — permanently. 32 PILLS: MY SISTER’S SUICIDE Hope Litoff, a film editor making her directing debut, investigates the life of her sister, Ruth Litoff, an artist who committed suicide in 2008. DAISY WINTERS An 11-year-old (Sterling Jerins) is forced to adapt to life without her mother (Brooke Shields), with whom she was exceptionally close. THE DANCER Stéphanie Di Giusto directs this biopic about Loie Fuller, the American dancer who revolutionized choreography in Paris around the turn of the 20th century. Played by the actress and singer Soko, Fuller was also instrumental in advancing the career of Isadora Duncan (Lily-Rose Depp), portrayed as a rival in this film. THE DISASTER ARTIST Only a handful of movies are so incompetent that they defy all explanation. The midnight movie “The Room” certainly qualifies. One of its actors, Greg Sestero, along with Tom Bissell, wrote an account of that film’s making and his friendship with Tommy Wiseau, the quixotic anti-auteur who willed “The Room” into being. Now James Franco has directed an adaptation of the book, also called “The Disaster Artist,” casting himself as Mr. Wiseau and Dave Franco, his brother, as Mr. Sestero. With Seth Rogen and Ari Graynor. LOVE BEATS RHYMES An aspiring rapper (Azealia Banks) takes in the scene at poetry slams and rap clubs as she works to find her artistic groove. The Wu-Tang Clan rapper RZA directed, in a big change of pace from his feature debut, the martial-arts tribute “The Man With the Iron Fists.” LOVELESS The Russian director Andrey Zvyagintsev earned acclaim at Cannes in May for this stark domestic drama about a divorcing couple whose 12-year-old son disappears after his fate is thrown into question by the split. Like Mr. Zvyagintsev’s “Leviathan,” the film doubles as an allegory about Russia. THE NEW RADICAL Adam Bhala Lough’s documentary focuses on two men with extreme views on the flow of information in the digital world: Cody Wilson, who invented a gun made with pieces generated from a 3-D printer and uploaded the blueprint, and Amir Taaki, Mr. Wilson’s collaborator on a project to broaden the use of Bitcoin. THE OTHER SIDE OF HOPE That’s the perfect title for a film by Aki Kaurismaki, the droll Finnish filmmaker of “Le Havre” and “The Man Without a Past.” He won best director at the Berlin Film Festival for this tale of a restaurant owner (Sakari Kuosmanen) who befriends a Syrian (Sherwan Haji) seeking asylum in Helsinki. SHADOWMAN Oren Jacoby directs this documentary about the street artist Richard Hambleton, who was known for painting silhouettes throughout Lower Manhattan. THE SHAPE OF WATER Guillermo del Toro directs this fabulously well-appointed Cold War-era fantasy about a mute janitorial worker (Sally Hawkins) at a government lab who sees the compassion in a humanoid aquatic creature (Doug Jones) others want to study or kill. Michael Shannon plays a menacing security expert; Octavia Spencer, Michael Stuhlbarg and Richard Jenkins also star. SLUMBER An entire family that appears to suffer from sleep paralysis is actually being haunted by something scarier, challenging the assumptions of a doctor (Maggie Q). THE TRIBES OF PALOS VERDES A young woman (Maika Monroe) new to a beach community in Southern California looks to surfing as an escape from her fractured family life. Based on the novel by Joy Nicholson, the movie also stars Jennifer Garner and Alicia Silverstone. VOYEUR Myles Kane and Josh Koury’s documentary looks at how Gay Talese reported his book “The Voyeur’s Motel,” published last year. Chronicling the exploits of a motel owner who is said to have spied on his customers, the book’s  credibility was called into question when The Washington Post informed Mr. Talese that the motel’s ownership records were inconsistent with the time span in the account. WONDER WHEEL If it’s a year that ends in a number, there must be a new Woody Allen movie. His latest, which closed the New York Film Festival last month, is set in motion when a woman running from the mob (Juno Temple) hides out with her estranged father (Jim Belushi) and his lovelorn current wife (Kate Winslet) in Coney Island in the 1950s. Justin Timberlake plays a lifeguard, and the cinematographer Vittorio Storaro gives it a look unlike that of any other Allen film. BILL FRISELL: A PORTRAIT Emma Franz’s documentary delves into the guitarist’s career and process. Bonnie Raitt and Paul Simon are among the other musicians who appear. BULLET HEAD Criminals are holed up in a warehouse in a fatal bind; how they got there is soon revealed. The distributor’s summary name-checks “Reservoir Dogs,” in case you thought it sounded derivative. With Antonio Banderas, Adrien Brody and John Malkovich. A DYING KING This documentary looks at the medical history of the shah of Iran, Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, who was overthrown in the Islamic revolution of 1979 and died in exile the next year. HOLLOW IN THE LAND Dianna Agron plays a woman who believes her brother, who has vanished, is innocent of murder, despite clues pointing to his guilt. I, TONYA Although Tonya Harding has hardly been absent from pop culture, she’s somehow avoided getting a starry biopic until now. Craig Gillespie’s tongue-in-cheek rendering treats her sympathetically even while portraying the 1994 attack on Nancy Kerrigan as a comically harebrained, “Fargo”-esque plan gone awry. With Margot Robbie as Ms. Harding; Allison Janney as her mother; Sebastian Stan as her first husband, Jeff Gillooly; and enough rockin’ soundtrack selections to have you doing a triple Lutz. JUST GETTING STARTED Whatever happened to Ron Shelton (“Bull Durham,” “White Men Can’t Jump”)? In his first theatrical feature since 2003, he directs Morgan Freeman as a Palm Springs resort manager who is secretly in the witness protection program. When his life is threatened, he joins forces with a tenant (Tommy Lee Jones) who has military experience, despite the rivalry between them. With Rene Russo and Glenne Headly, who died in June. KALEIDOSCOPE Toby Jones plays an ex-convict whose mother (Anne Reid) disrupts his efforts to reacclimate to life outside and opens a psychological can of worms. If that isn’t Freudian enough, the writer and director is Rupert Jones, Mr. Jones’s brother. QUEST Jonathan Olshefski began this documentary as a photo essay about Christopher Rainey, known as Quest, and his home music studio in Philadelphia. Mr. Olshefski ended up following Quest and his family over the long term. The result is a movie that organically touches on issues of race, parenting, poverty, sexuality and street violence in the United States. Framed by the 2008 and 2016 elections, it implicitly becomes the story of one urban African-American family’s experience of the Obama era. MISS KIET’S CHILDREN Petra Lataster-Czisch and Peter Lataster take their cameras into the classroom of a Dutch teacher who educates refugees. THE BALLAD OF LEFTY BROWN Jared Moshé directs this old-school western, about a sidekick (Bill Pullman) on the trail of the men who killed his partner (Peter Fonda). BEYOND SKYLINE In a sequel to the little-remembered alien-invasion thriller “Skyline” (2010), a father tries to save his son and Earth, too. Frank Grillo, Bojana Novakovic and Iko Uwais star. BIRDBOY: THE FORGOTTEN CHILDREN Alberto Vázquez and Pedro Rivera based this macabre animated feature, said to be intended for adults, on Mr. Vázquez’s graphic novel “Pscionautas.” The film won a Goya (Spain’s equivalent of an Oscar). DESOLATION A mother, her son and her friend go into the woods to scatter ashes and discover they have company. FERDINAND “The Story of Ferdinand,” the 1936 children’s book by Munro Leaf about a gentle bull who “liked to sit just quietly and smell the flowers,” charges onto the screen in an animated feature from Carlos Saldanha (the “Ice Age” movies). John Cena lends his voice to Ferdinand; the other vocal talent includes Kate McKinnon, Gina Rodriguez and Daveed Diggs. GOTTI John Gotti, the crime boss and “first media don,” was already the focus of a 1996 TV movie, in which he was played by Armand Assante. In this theatrical film, which covers 30 years, John Travolta assumes impersonation duties, as he did for Robert Shapiro. Mr. Travolta’s wife, Kelly Preston, plays Gotti’s. The screenwriters are Lem Dobbs (“The Limey”) and the character actor Leo Rossi; directed by Kevin Connolly of “Entourage” fame. HEDGEHOGS The title seems a bit misleading, as this animated offering is about a hedgehog and a pigeon who travel to the city. KILLING FOR LOVE Daniel Brühl and Imogen Poots read the letters of Jens Soering and Elizabeth Haysom, University of Virginia college students who were suspects in the 1985 murders of Ms. Haysom’s parents. Mr. Soering was convicted, and Ms. Haysom pleaded guilty to being an accessory before the fact. The New Yorker reported that the film, originally known as “The Promise,” is told from the point of view of Mr. Soering, who has maintained that he is not guilty. THE LEISURE SEEKER Putting their troubles aside, a Massachusetts couple (Donald Sutherland and Helen Mirren) hop in a Winnebago for a road trip down the East Coast. Mr. Sutherland’s character’s faculties are beginning to slip. Paolo Virzi (“Human Capital”) directed. PERMANENT That’s “permanent” as in the hair treatment, which goes awry for a junior-high student in this 1980s-set movie. It stars Kira McLean, Patricia Arquette and Rainn Wilson. THE RAPE OF RECY TAYLOR In Abbeville, Ala., in 1944, a group of white males abducted Recy Taylor, an African-American woman, as she left church, and gang-raped her. Rosa Parks, working for the N.A.A.C.P., and more than a decade before the Montgomery bus boycott, went to Abbeville to investigate. Nancy Buirski’s documentary includes interviews with Ms. Taylor’s siblings. SOUFRA Mariam Shaar, who was born in a refugee camp in Lebanon, works to expand a catering company with others in the camp. STAR WARS: THE LAST JEDI “Last” is not a word in the “Star Wars” vocabulary, especially in an age when — as with Peter Cushing in the 2016 stand-alone episode, “Rogue One” — the actors no longer need to be alive to perform in the movie. When we left Rey (Daisy Ridley) in “The Force Awakens,” she was dangling a light saber at Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill). Rian Johnson (“Looper”) directed this installment, employing a record-low number of wipe transitions and introducing a new creature, the porg. WORMWOOD With an unusually high-profile cast (Peter Sarsgaard, Tim Blake Nelson) for his re-enactments, Errol Morris ruminates again on the difficulties of deciphering and reproducing history — in this case, the enigmatic death of a scientist during the Cold War. THE GREATEST SHOWMAN Well, this is a novelty act — or at least might have been before the success of “La La Land”: a modern, straight-to-screen musical, based on the rise of P. T. Barnum (Hugh Jackman). Let’s hope it wasn’t guided by the principle that “there’s a sucker born every minute” (a quote often attributed to Barnum). Michelle Williams, Zac Efron and Zendaya also star. Michael Gracey, who has worked in visual effects and commercials, directed this debut feature. The songs are by Benj Pasek and Justin Paul, who collaborated on “La La Land.” JUMANJI: WELCOME TO THE JUNGLE “Jumanji” is rebooted in an unusually literal sense: Four teenagers cleaning out their school’s basement discover not a board game but a video game that sucks them into a jungle adventure. And in that world, they aren’t teenagers but avatars, played by Dwayne Johnson, Kevin Hart, Karen Gillan and Jack Black. Jake Kasdan directed. ALL THE MONEY IN THE WORLD Ridley Scott directs a thriller inspired by the real-life abduction of 16-year-old J. Paul Getty III, whose wealthy but stingy grandfather dragged his feet on paying the ransom, not wanting to create an incentive for the kidnapping of his other grandchildren. Charlie Plummer plays the teenager, Kevin Spacey his grandfather and Michelle Williams his mother. BRIGHT The “Suicide Squad” director David Ayer’s movie is set in a fantastical mishmash of Los Angeles. Will Smith and Joel Edgerton play buddy cops — one human (Mr. Smith) and one orc (Mr. Edgerton). Their discovery of a magic wand leads them into an adventure. With Noomi Rapace, Lucy Fry and Edgar Ramírez. CROOKED HOUSE Glenn Close, Gillian Anderson and Christina Hendricks play some of the suspects at a British estate where a detective (Max Irons) is investigating a murder. Julian Fellowes of “Downton Abbey” is one of the screenwriters on this adaptation of the Agatha Christie novel. DOWNSIZING Alexander Payne (working with his frequent screenwriting partner Jim Taylor) directs a parable set in the near future, when the frugal and environmentally conscious can “get small” — that is, have themselves miniaturized and live large in tiny resort communities. A couple (Matt Damon and Kristen Wiig) decide to take advantage of the fad. With Hong Chau, Christoph Waltz and Jason Sudeikis. FATHER FIGURES Owen Wilson and Ed Helms play brothers who discover that the father they thought was dead is actually simply unknown to their mother (Glenn Close). À la “Flirting With Disaster,” they set off to meet the candidates. With Ving Rhames, J.K. Simmons and Terry Bradshaw. HANGMAN If “Mindhunter” or “The Snowman” didn’t meet your quota for serial-killer narratives this season, here’s another. Al Pacino plays a detective chasing a murderer whose spree pays tribute to the word game Hangman. Will the movie be any good, or did Mr. Pacino take the job for a PAY_HE_K? Karl Urban and Brittany Snow also star. HAPPY END Michael Haneke returns to several of his favorite themes — voyeurism, hypocrisy, the moral emptiness of the bourgeoisie and the loneliness of death — in a movie that, understandably, struck many critics at Cannes as a retread. Jean-Louis Trintignant (from Mr. Haneke’s “Amour”) is the head of a rich, venal family; Isabelle Huppert, a Haneke regular, is in the cast as well. HOSTILES In the second western of the month (after “The Ballad of Lefty Brown”), Scott Cooper (“Black Mass”) directs Christian Bale as an army captain who is assigned to accompany a dying Cheyenne chief (Wes Studi) to Montana. Along the way, they encounter danger and the sole survivor (Rosamund Pike) of a massacre. PITCH PERFECT 3 Now out of college, the Bellas reunite to perform their exuberant brand of a cappella at a U.S.O. show. Anna Kendrick, Rebel Wilson, Brittany Snow and Hailee Steinfeld all return. Trish Sie (the not-bad “Step Up All In”) directed. THE POST The Washington Post already had its Watergate movie; must it hog the Pentagon Papers as well? Steven Spielberg pops into The Post’s newsroom to watch the paper’s publisher Katharine Graham (Meryl Streep) and executive editor Ben Bradlee (Tom Hanks) as they decide whether to report on classified documents that revealed a secret history of the Vietnam War. The Times broke the story; The Post joined in five days following the initial publication after a federal judge ordered The Times to halt. In New York Times Co. v. United States, the Supreme Court concluded that both papers had a right to publish. With Alison Brie, Carrie Coon and many others. MOLLY’S GAME Taking a stab at pacing his own dialogue, Aaron Sorkin makes his directorial debut with this adaptation of a memoir by Molly Bloom (Jessica Chastain). Nicknamed the “poker princess” by tabloids, she was known for arranging secret poker games for well-heeled, sometimes famous players and was named in an indictment in 2013 for her role in a gambling ring. (She was sentenced to a year’s probation.) Idris Elba plays her lawyer, Michael Cera one of her card game regulars and Kevin Costner her father. PHANTOM THREAD Paul Thomas Anderson’s first feature since “Inherent Vice” (2014) reunites him with Daniel Day-Lewis — unforgettable in “There Will Be Blood” — and centers on a dressmaker who tailors for the crème de la crème of London in the 1950s. With Lesley Manville and Vicky Krieps. IN THE FADE In this surprisingly pulpy revenge drama from Fatih Akin (“The Edge of Heaven”), a woman (Diane Kruger) whose husband and son were killed in a terrorist bombing in Hamburg finds that the German legal system is less forthcoming with justice than she would like. Ms. Kruger won the best-actress prize at Cannes. FILM STARS DON’T DIE IN LIVERPOOL Annette Bening channels Gloria Grahame, the glamorous, scandalous star of “In a Lonely Place,” in her twilight years in England (after the collapse of her marriage to her former stepson, Tony Ray). It’s based on a memoir by Peter Turner, who is played by Jamie Bell. Paul McGuigan directed.  Advertisement    Collapse SEE MY OPTIONS 